HANOI UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
SCHOOL OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING
GRADUATION THESIS
A FAULT-ADAPTIVE PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY
TRADING FRAMEWORK FOR
ENHANCING MULTI-MICROGRID RESILIENCE
VIA ATC AND MPC
TRINH XUAN THANH
thanh.tx20222744@sis.hust.edu.vn
Major: Electrical Engineering
Supervisor:
Assoc. Prof. Nguyen Duc Tuyen
Supervisor’s signature
Department:
Electrical Engineering
School:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Hanoi, June 2026

THESIS ASSIGNMENT
Full name: Trinh Xuan Thanh
Student ID: 20222744
Class: Renewable energy and power system 01 – K67
Thesis title: A Fault-Adaptive Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading Framework for Enhancing
Multi-Microgrid Resilience via ATC and MPC.
I. Review the state-of-the-art literature on microgrids and Peer-to-Peer (P2P) en-
ergy trading, identifying gaps in physical network constraints and resilient oper-
ations.
II. Develop the system architecture and mathematical formulation for microgrid en-
ergy management, integrating Second-Order Cone Programming (SOCP) for ex-
act AC power flow.
III. Design a decentralized spatial coordination framework using Analytical Target
Cascading (ATC) to facilitate secure P2P trading across interconnected micro-
grids.
IV. Implement a temporal coordination strategy utilizing Model Predictive Control
(MPC) with a rolling horizon to proactively manage extreme fault events.
V. Simulate and analyze the proposed framework on multi-microgrid testbeds, com-
prehensively evaluating economic efficiency, voltage stability, and algorithmic
convergence.
Hanoi, . . . . . . / 06 / 2026
Supervisor
Assoc. Prof. Nguyen Duc Tuyen

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
First and foremost, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Assoc. Prof.
Nguyen Duc Tuyen for his dedicated supervision, invaluable guidance, and continu-
ous encouragement throughout the entire course of this thesis. His insightful feedback
and deep expertise in power systems have been the cornerstone of this work.
I am deeply grateful to all faculty members of the Department of Electrical
Engineering, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Hanoi University of
Science and Technology (HUST), for imparting knowledge and creating a stimulating
academic environment over the past five years.
My heartfelt thanks also go to the members of the 100RE Lab for their colle-
giality, knowledge sharing, and moral support during the research process. Working
alongside such a motivated group has been both a privilege and an inspiration.
Finally, I owe my deepest appreciation to my family, whose unwavering support,
trust, and encouragement have been my greatest source of strength and motivation
throughout my academic journey.
I acknowledge that the thesis may still contain shortcomings, and I sincerely
welcome any constructive feedback from professors and readers.
The Author
Thanh
Trinh Xuan Thanh

ABSTRACT
The increasing severity of extreme weather events exposes the inherent vulner-
ability of traditional distribution grids, rendering centralized and linear energy man-
agement models inadequate. To enhance physical resilience and economic efficiency
under severe disruptions, this thesis proposes a highly rigorous, bottom-up spatiotem-
poral energy management framework for MMG systems. The proposed architecture
synergizes three core mechanisms: SOCP AC-OPF constraints for voltage security,
ATC for decentralized, privacy-preserving multi-agent coordination, and MPC to ro-
bustly navigate system uncertainties through a rolling horizon.
By stress-testing the architecture against severe islanding scenarios, the simu-
lation reveals several significant findings. Most crucially, the framework guarantees
a 100% survival rate for Critical Loads during grid failures. Economically, rout-
ing P2P exchanges to liberate stranded renewable energy successfully manifests a
“Negative Premium”, wherein post-fault operational costs are counterintuitively lower
than normal pre-fault operations. Furthermore, the rigorous mathematical formula-
tion exposes two key physical phenomena. First, the Tie-line Congestion Paradox
demonstrates that physical transmission bounds inherently constrain the ATC consen-
sus pricing (λ), decoupling it from extreme local VOLL escalations and preventing
economic collapse. Second, the Voltage Paradox highlights the absolute necessity of
AC-OPF integration; high transit currents induce severe I2X reactive power losses that
threaten catastrophic voltage collapse, forcing the algorithm to proactively execute ac-
tive power load shedding as a vital physical defense. Ultimately, this thesis establishes
a computationally tractable, fault-adaptive, and physically secure P2P energy trading
framework, forging a resilient paradigm for the next generation of decentralized power
systems.

DECLARATION OF ORIGINALITY
I am Trinh Xuan Thanh, Student ID 20222744, student of Class Renewable En-
ergy and Power System 01 – K67. My supervisor is Assoc. Prof. Nguyen Duc Tuyen.
I hereby declare that the entire content presented in the thesis entitled “A Fault-
Adaptive Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading Framework for Enhancing Multi-Microgrid
Resilience via ATC and MPC” is the result of my own study and research process.
The data reported in the thesis are completely truthful. All cited information com-
plies with intellectual property regulations, and references are clearly listed. I take
full responsibility for the contents written in this thesis.
The Author
Trinh Xuan Thanh

Contents
LIST OF SYMBOLS AND ABBREVIATIONS
i
LIST OF FIGURES
v
LIST OF TABLES
vi
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION AND LITERATURE REVIEW
1
1.1
Macro View: The Evolution of Smart Grid and MMGs . . . . . . . .
1
1.2
The Physical Layer: Power Flow Models and Network Constraints . .
1
1.3
The Spatial Layer: Decentralization and Privacy . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
1.4
The Temporal Layer: Temporal Dynamics and Grid Resilience . . . .
4
1.5
Research Gap, Motivation, and Major Contributions . . . . . . . . . .
6
1.5.1
The Master Gap and Motivation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
1.5.2
Major Contributions
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
1.6
Thesis Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
CHAPTER 2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND MATHEMATICAL
FORMULATION
8
2.1
System Parameters, Sets, and Indices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8
2.2
Mathematical Modeling of Energy Components . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
2.2.1
RESs and Loads
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
2.2.2
BESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
2.2.3
DG
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
2.3
AC-OPF Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11
2.3.1
Economic and Loss Functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11
2.3.2
Operational Modes and Fault Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
2.3.3
Distribution Power Flow Constraints . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
2.4
SOCP Relaxation and Exactness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14
2.4.1
Convexification and SOC Relaxation
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
14
2.4.2
Exactness in Normal Mode . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15
2.4.3
Robustness against Inexactness in Emergency Mode
. . . . .
15
2.5
Final Local SOCP Optimization Model
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16
2.5.1
Formulation I: Normal Operation Mode (ΓE(t) = 0)
. . . . .
16
2.5.2
Formulation II: Emergency Mode (ΓE(t) = 1) . . . . . . . . .
16
CHAPTER 3. SPATIAL COORDINATION - ATC
18
3.1
ATC Overview
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18
3.2
The Coordinator Problem (Utility Grid) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19

3.3
The Local MG Problem with ATC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
3.4
ATC Iterative Algorithm and Convergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
CHAPTER 4. TEMPORAL COORDINATION WITH MPC
23
4.1
MPC Time Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
4.1.1
Day-Ahead Scheduling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
4.1.2
Real-Time Emergency MPC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
4.2
State Update and Forecasting Mechanism
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
4.2.1
SOC Inheritance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
4.2.2
Forecasting Data Update Mechanism
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
4.3
The 3-Mode Spatiotemporal Coordination Framework . . . . . . . . .
25
4.3.1
Mode 1 and Mode 3: Normal Operation and Recovery . . . .
25
4.3.2
Mode 2: Emergency Integration of Spatial and Temporal
Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
4.3.3
Activation of Penalty Functions and Load Shedding Mechanism 27
CHAPTER 5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
30
5.1
System Configuration and Simulation Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30
5.1.1
Network Topology and DER Allocation Parameters . . . . . .
31
5.1.2
Simulation Scenarios and Baseline Models
. . . . . . . . . .
31
5.1.3
The 3D Evaluation Framework: Horizontal, Vertical, and
Boundary Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
32
5.2
Horizontal Evaluation:
System-Level Economic Assessment and
Benchmarking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
32
5.2.1
Critical Load Protection and Energy Security . . . . . . . . .
33
5.2.2
Optimality Gap Analysis: The Denominator Effect . . . . . .
34
5.2.3
Co-optimization Benefits of P2P Energy Trading . . . . . . .
34
5.2.4
Comparative Analysis of MG Operational Dynamics . . . . .
35
5.3
Vertical Evaluation: Operational Dynamics of the Proposed MPC-
ATC Framework
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37
5.3.1
Active Power Routing and the Transit Corridor Effect . . . . .
37
5.3.2
AC-OPF Constraint Satisfaction: Voltage Stability and Reac-
tive Power Management
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
5.3.3
Algorithmic Convergence and the Tie-line Congestion Paradox 40
5.4
Boundary Evaluation: Stress Testing and System Resilience . . . . . .
43
5.4.1
The Spatiotemporal Stress Matrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
43
5.4.2
Active Power Routing Limits and Network Capacity
. . . . .
44
5.4.3
Voltage Stability Envelopes under Severe Grid Contingencies
45
5.4.4
Graceful Degradation: Autonomous Load Prioritization vs.
Economic Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46
6

CHAPTER 6. CONCLUSION
49
6.1
Conclusion
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
49
6.2
Future Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
49
LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS
50
REFERENCES
51

LIST OF SYMBOLS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation
Full Form
1. Methods & Algorithms
ATC
Analytical Target Cascading
MPC
Model Predictive Control
OPF
Optimal Power Flow
AC-OPF
Alternating Current Optimal Power Flow
SOCP
Second-Order Cone Programming
KKT
Karush-Kuhn-Tucker
HILP
High-Impact Low-Probability
SO
Stochastic Optimization
RO
Robust Optimization
RL
Reinforcement Learning
ADMM
Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers
2. Energy Systems & Components
MG
Microgrid
MMG
Multi-Microgrid
P2P
Peer-to-Peer
PV
Photovoltaic
WT
Wind Turbine
BESS
Battery Energy Storage System
DG
Diesel Generator
SOC
State of Charge
ESS
Energy Storage System
RES
Renewable Energy Sources
DER
Distributed Energy Resource
EMS
Energy Management System
DSO
Distribution System Operator
3. Metrics & Parameters
VOLL
Value of Lost Load
DLMP
Distribution Locational Marginal Price
FIT
Feed-in Tariff
PDF
Probability Density Function
PF
Perfect Foresight
pu
Per-unit
MWh
Megawatt-hour
MW
Megawatt
Note: Subscripts i, j denote node or line indices, and t denotes the time interval. They
are omitted in descriptions for brevity.

Symbol
Description
1. Sets & Indices
T
Set of time scheduling intervals
N ,M
Sets of buses/nodes in the network, and Microgrids
C ,E
Sets of line configurations, and distribution lines
N PV,N WT
Sets of nodes equipped with PV and Wind Turbines
N DG,N BESS
Sets of nodes equipped with Diesel Generators and BESS
N trade
Set of nodes with P2P tie-lines
Ω(i)
Set of child nodes connected to node i
2. Parameters
Sbase,Ubase
System base apparent power and voltage
Zbase,Ibase
System base impedance and current
Rij,Xi j,Ci j
Resistance, reactance, and capacitance of line (i, j)
Pload,Qload
Active and reactive power demand
πbuy,πsell
Electricity prices for purchasing/selling to the main grid
Ppeak
PV ,Ppeak
WT
Maximum active power generation of PV and WT
QPV,QWT
Reactive power output limits of PV and WT
SPV,SWT
Apparent power capacities of PV and WT
πtrade
P2P trading price between MGs
λ,ρ
Lagrange multiplier and penalty parameter for ADMM
Ptarget
Target active power trading amount provided by DSO
αDG,βDG,γDG
Fixed, linear, and quadratic cost coefficients of DG
Cstart,DG
Cold start cost of DG
Pmin
DG ,Pmax
DG
Minimum and maximum active power limits of DG
Rramp
DG
Ramp rate limit of DG
T DG
up ,T DG
down
Minimum up and down time of DG
CBESS,ηbess
Degradation cost coefficient and round-trip efficiency of BESS
Pmax
bess
Maximum charging/discharging power of BESS
SOCmin,SOCmax
Minimum and maximum State of Charge limits of BESS
SOCini
Initial State of Charge of BESS
Capbess
Energy capacity of BESS
3. Decision Variables
Pline,Qline
Active and reactive power flow on line (i, j)
V 2,I2
Squared voltage magnitude and squared current magnitude
PPV,PWT
Scheduled active power generation of PV and WT
PDG,QDG
Active and reactive power generation of DG
IDG,vDG
ON/OFF status and startup binary variables of DG
RDG
Spinning reserve of DG
Pchar
bess ,Pdis
bess
Charging and discharging power of BESS
SOC
State of Charge of BESS
Ichar
bess,Idis
bess
Binary indicators for charging and discharging modes of BESS
Pshed
Total active power load shedding
Pnormal
shed
,Pcritical
shed
Normal and critical load shedding amounts
ii

Ptie
Active power traded via P2P tie-lines
Pbuy
grid,Psell
grid
Active power purchased from and sold to the main grid
Ppaid
grid ,P free
grid
Compensated and uncompensated active power sold to the grid
sSOC
Slack variable for end-of-horizon SOC penalty
iii

List of Figures
Figure 1.1
Trade-off comparison of Optimal Power Flow models high-
lighting the optimal balance achieved by the SOCP relaxation.
. . . .
3
Figure 1.2
The proposed Tri-layer Cooperative Resilience Architecture . .
7
Figure 2.1
Internal configuration of a typical Microgrid node. Source:
Modern clean energy microgrid diagram. Image by AllahFoto, li-
censed via Adobe Stock (Education License). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
Figure 2.2
Evolution of Optimal Power Flow models and the justification
for the SOCP approach. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14
Figure 2.3
Geometric visualization of the SOCP relaxation: The non-
convex equality constraint (hollow surface) is relaxed into a convex
inequality (solid feasible region), thereby transforming the problem
space into a globally solvable convex cone. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15
Figure 3.4
Conceptual topology of the interconnected Multi-Microgrid
system.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18
Figure 3.5
Ensuring data privacy and independent P2P trading. . . . . . .
19
Figure 3.6
Flowchart of the Decentralized ATC Algorithm. . . . . . . . .
22
Figure 4.7
MPC Rolling Horizon Framework
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
Figure 4.8
Flowchart of the 3-Mode State Machine Algorithm
. . . . . .
26
Figure 5.1
P2P interconnection topology of the MMG system.
. . . . . .
30
Figure 5.2
Timeline of the compounded emergency fault, illustrating the
Main Grid and PV generation loss scenarios. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
32
Figure 5.3
Macro-economic comparison demonstrating the true eco-
nomic cost versus total load shedding. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
33
Figure 5.4
Energy mix distribution across the MMG system over a 24-
hour horizon. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34
Figure 5.5
Massive Load Shedding in Vulnerable MGs - Base Fault Sce-
nario.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35
Figure 5.6
SOC Comparison. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
36
Figure 5.7
Active Power Flow - Proposed MPC Method.
. . . . . . . . .
38
Figure 5.8
Node-Level Voltage Profiles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39
Figure 5.9
Reactive Power Dispatch - Proposed MPC Method.
. . . . . .
39
Figure 5.10 Load Shedding Profile (Confined exclusively to MG4).
. . . .
40
Figure 5.11 Total and maximum CPU time comparison between PF and
MPC.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
41
Figure 5.12 ATC Convergence Behavior Across All Hours. . . . . . . . . .
42
Figure 5.13 Dynamic ATC Pricing (λ). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
43
Figure 5.14 P2P active power exchange across four fault scenarios: Base
Case (2-MG Short), 3-MG Short, 2-MG Long, and 3-MG Long. . . .
45
iv

Figure 5.15 System-wide voltage envelope under varying spatiotemporal
fault severities.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46
Figure 5.16 Robustness test demonstrating True Economic Cost versus
Load Shedding across fault depths. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
47
Figure 5.17 Temporal distribution of Total Shedding and Economic Cost. .
47
v

List of Tables
Table 5.1
Placement of DERs across MGs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
31
Table 5.2
Technical and Economic Parameters of DG and BESS
. . . . .
31
Table 5.3
Macro-Economic Benchmark of Simulation Models
. . . . . .
33
vi

CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION AND LITERATURE REVIEW
1.1
Macro View: The Evolution of Smart Grid and MMGs
The global energy landscape is undergoing a profound paradigm shift driven by
the massive integration of DERs [1,2]. The massive penetration of renewables has cat-
alyzed the transformation of passive end-users into active prosumers. Consequently,
this evolution introduces unprecedented challenges in two-way energy coordination
and grid management [3].
To manage the escalating complexity of this decentralized environment, MG has
emerged as the fundamental cellular building block of the modern Smart Grid [4].
Functioning as a localized energy system, a MG possesses the critical capability to
operate seamlessly in both grid-connected and isolated (islanded) modes [5]. Further-
more, BESS have become an indispensable component within these MGs, serving as
a vital buffer to absorb the inherent stochasticity of renewable generation [6].
In parallel with physical infrastructure advancements, the economic mecha-
nisms governing energy exchange are fundamentally evolving. Rigid incentive struc-
tures, such as Feed-in Tariffs (FIT), are being rapidly replaced by dynamic P2P energy
trading frameworks [7, 8]. P2P trading facilitates direct active power transactions
among localized prosumers [9], thereby maximizing community social welfare and
significantly shortening investment payback periods [10, 11]. Ultimately, this culti-
vates a high degree of regional energy autonomy [12]. Within this framework, P2P
markets are restricted to the trading of active power (P), while reactive power (Q) is
managed locally.
More recently, the strategic focus of MG and P2P implementation has necessi-
tated a critical pivot from pure economic efficiency toward grid resilience. Driven by
the escalating frequency of extreme weather events, networked MGs are increasingly
conceptualized as critical safety nets [13,14]. During severe grid disturbances, these
systems must provide self-healing capabilities and facilitate emergency energy rout-
ing to safeguard critical loads [15]. Consequently, the localized P2P trading platform
transcends its conventional financial role, functioning fundamentally as the underly-
ing decentralized control and communication framework that enables such emergency
energy routing during autonomous islanding operations. This ensures that operational
continuity and power system resilience are robustly maintained even under extreme
adverse conditions [16].
1.2
The Physical Layer: Power Flow Models and Network Constraints
Early literature frequently models distribution grids and P2P markets using a
lumped-node (or copper-plate) abstraction. This oversimplified approach aggregates
all local generations and loads into a single node, operating under the assumption
of infinite transmission capacity and ignoring the physical network topology [17].
By disregarding line impedances and thermal limits, the copper-plate model assumes
that active power can be freely routed between any two prosumers without encoun-
tering physical constraints. Consequently, such models obscure underlying voltage
violations and often trigger severe localized congestion when deployed in real-world
scenarios [18]. As demonstrated by recent studies, relying on lumped-node aggrega-
tions creates a misleading perception of grid flexibility, which inevitably fails during
1

high-stress operating conditions [19,20].
To incorporate network constraints, subsequent research adopted linearized
models like DC OPF (DC-OPF) or LinDistFlow. These models operate by neglect-
ing branch losses and transverse voltage drops, essentially dropping the non-linear
terms from the branch flow equations [21]. While computationally efficient for bulk
transmission systems, this mathematical simplification introduces significant errors
in distribution networks characterized by high R/X ratios [22]. The inherent phys-
ical characteristics of radial distribution grids dictate that active and reactive power
(P-Q-V) are strongly coupled [23]. Any rapid fluctuation in active power (P)—such
as those induced by aggressive decentralized P2P trading—immediately induces sub-
stantial variations in nodal voltage magnitudes. Therefore, decoupling the economic
dispatch of active power from the physical management of reactive power leads to
severely underestimated voltage drops [24]. Under extreme weather events or emer-
gency islanded modes, relying on such linear approximations frequently leads to volt-
age collapse [25,26].
AC-OPF problem, SOCP relaxation has emerged as a robust framework. The
core conflict in AC-OPF arises from the non-linear coupling of voltage magnitudes
and phase angles, which inherently creates a non-convex feasible region. SOCP de-
constructs this conflict by defining auxiliary variables to represent voltage products—
such as mapping Wi j = ViVj cos(θi j)—and applying exact convexification. Specif-
ically, it relaxes the rigid non-linear equality constraints into a convex inequality
cone, yielding relationships such as WiiWj j ≥|Wi j|2 [22, 27]. By transforming the
non-convex domain into a convex space, this mathematical mechanism guarantees
exactness and global optimality specifically under radial network topologies, while
accelerating computational speed and inherently preserving the strict AC physics of
the grid [28]1.
More importantly, unlike linear approximations that ignore losses, the SOCP
formulation accurately captures the exact quadratic power flow equations, longitu-
dinal branch losses, and strict transverse voltage limits essential for resilient opera-
tion [28,29]. This precise physical representation becomes critical during emergency
islanding conditions, where the MG operates independently and is susceptible to volt-
age collapse. The SOCP framework effectively encapsulates the unique islanding
physics of MGs by tightly coupling the active power routing with the underlying volt-
age profile. By respecting the true non-linear bounds of the network, the optimization
ensures that the derived market clearing solutions remain strictly physically feasible
under extreme conditions.
Within this exact AC framework, the critical role of reactive power (Q) is explic-
itly managed. Rather than commoditizing reactive power into the financial P2P mar-
ket, the SOCP model mathematically ensures that local DERs provide autonomous
Q generation. Specifically, DERs autonomously generate Q as an ancillary service
utilizing their remaining inverter capacity (S2
max ≥P2 +Q2) [30], thus preserving the
1It is critical to acknowledge that the strict exactness of the SOCP formulation is theoretically
maintained because the overarching objective function incorporates a VOLL penalty component. This
mechanism, combined with the radial topology of the MG, mathematically penalizes load shedding,
thereby implicitly forcing the system to tighten the SOC convergence boundary (SOC relaxation tight-
ness) and ensuring physically realizable voltage bounds.
2

active power (P) trading limits [31]. This localized reactive support is dynamically
dispatched to neutralize the voltage fluctuations induced by large-scale active power
(P) trades. As demonstrated by Garrido-Arevalo et al., integrating this mechanism
guarantees that local grid security is maintained, proving effective in supporting volt-
age stability without requiring external financial transactions [32]. Furthermore, Men
et al. explicitly established that deploying such SOCP-based autonomous reactive
compensation enhances overall power system resilience, ensuring uninterrupted op-
eration during severe disturbances and autonomous islanded transitions [33].
Figure 1.1 Trade-off comparison of Optimal Power Flow models highlighting the op-
timal balance achieved by the SOCP relaxation.
1.3
The Spatial Layer: Decentralization and Privacy
Traditional EMS depend on a centralized architecture to coordinate dispatch
and execute global optimization. However, these systems require the EMS to ag-
gregate large volumes of high-resolution data, including local capacity bounds and
operational states. This extensive data requirement creates a severe computational
and communication bottleneck that degrades real-time dispatch efficiency [34]. Fur-
thermore, in the P2P market, prosumers’ underlying load profiles and financial bids
are strictly confidential. A centralized framework inherently compromises this pri-
vacy by mandating full parameter exposure, thereby undermining market trust and
disincentivizing participation [35]. Beyond computational and economic limitations,
centralized coordination introduces a structural vulnerability that compromises grid
resilience during extreme weather events. Operating a MMG network through a sin-
gle computational hub establishes a critical single point of failure. If the central com-
munication link is severed during a physical disaster, the entire MMG system loses
coordination. This loss of centralized control triggers cascading failures across the
network, disrupting the autonomous islanded resilience required to sustain critical
loads during emergencies [36,37].
To mitigate these vulnerabilities, distributed optimization frameworks, ADMM,
have been widely adopted. ADMM establishes a flat decentralized structure that
mathematically decomposes the global optimization problem [38]. This mechanism
protects data privacy, as participants only exchange boundary coupling variables
3

rather than internal parameters [39]. Moreover, this flat consensus-based approach
ensures resilience against centralized failures [40]. Concurrently, DLMP has been
integrated into these models [41, 42]. These pricing signals accurately reflect local
marginal costs and network congestion states [43]. Consequently, ADMM has proven
effective for linearized, flat market clearings [44].
However, modern power systems are inherently hierarchical rather than flat. A
distribution network operator typically coordinates multiple autonomous MGs, form-
ing a strict top-down operational topology. When ADMM is applied to solve such
multi-level optimizations, particularly those involving exact SOCP formulations, its
mathematical foundation exposes critical limitations. Fundamentally, ADMM en-
forces “flat horizontal consensus”, which causes severe oscillation and algorithmic di-
vergence in non-linear SOCP multi-level grids [45]. This inefficiency creates substan-
tial communication overhead, rendering the method inadequate for dynamic, multi-
level grid coordination [46].
To resolve this structural mismatch, ATC provides a mathematically rigorous
top-down coordination framework. Mathematically, ATC achieves this decoupling
by formulating an Augmented Lagrangian penalty function to coordinate boundary
coupling variables between hierarchical levels. Crucially, convexifying the physical
grid via SOCP is a strict prerequisite condition for this process; without a globally
convex feasible region at the physical layer, the ATC algorithm cannot theoretically
guarantee convergence. Consequently, by enforcing a “vertical master-slave consen-
sus” over these convexified domains, ATC securely decouples the hierarchical re-
gions and ensures fast convergence [47]. In this paradigm, the upper level dictates
optimal “Target” variables, while the lower levels compute and return corresponding
“Response” variables [48, 49]. This strict target-response mechanism decouples the
hierarchical optimization loops, allowing each layer to solve its mathematical prob-
lem independently without violating data privacy. Importantly, this approach effec-
tively calculates the DLMP, preserving economic pricing signals within a top-down
structure. By eliminating the necessity for global flat consensus, ATC significantly
reduces communication overhead and guarantees fast, stable convergence even when
managing complex, non-linear SOCP models.
1.4
The Temporal Layer: Temporal Dynamics and Grid Resilience
Traditional operational strategies predominantly rely on static optimization or
pure day-ahead dispatch mechanisms governed by a deterministic mathematical for-
mulation. This approach calculates an operational trajectory predicated entirely on a
single day-ahead snapshot, denoted as ˆx [50, 51]. When the power system encoun-
ters sudden physical disturbances, such as emergency islanding transitions, real-time
grid conditions inevitably deviate from the initial snapshot ˆx [52, 53]. These devia-
tions immediately cause voltage limit and capacity constraint violations, which can
trigger severe cascading failures across the network. Because it lacks a continuous
update loop, the mathematical model cannot dynamically adapt, rendering the control
system fundamentally rigid. Consequently, enforcing this rigid schedule causes the
pre-calculated dispatch bounds to be rapidly breached.
To address the mathematical limitations of deterministic static models, SO has
4

been widely explored. SO formulates the dispatch problem by optimizing the ex-
pected value of an objective function, typically expressed as E[f(x,ξ)] using estab-
lished PDFs. While this approach mitigates minor forecasting errors under normal op-
erations, it exhibits critical theoretical vulnerabilities when applied to grid resilience.
Specifically, relying on established PDFs is often insufficient to capture HILP events
or fat-tail risks. Because these extreme physical disruptions lack sufficient histori-
cal data, synthesizing accurate statistical distributions is infeasible, rendering the SO
approach inadequate for safeguarding critical infrastructure during severe blackouts.
Alternatively, RO circumvents the reliance on precise statistical distributions
by framing the control problem within a strict min-max formulation, represented
as minmax f(x,u). This framework evaluates the worst-case scenario over a pre-
defined uncertainty set U, guaranteeing operational feasibility under extreme con-
ditions. However, mathematically preparing for the absolute worst-case creates ex-
treme over-conservatism, forcing the MG to maintain substantial idle energy reserves
and substantially degrading economic efficiency. Furthermore, constructing a rigor-
ous two-stage RO model for complex MG networks inevitably leads to highly non-
linear min-max-min mathematical structures. These structures are computationally
intractable and cannot be solved efficiently enough for real-time applications, remain-
ing inherently open-loop.
Overcoming the structural vulnerabilities of both static and conservative
paradigms, MPC introduces a dynamic, multi-temporal optimization framework
centered on a rolling horizon mechanism. Mathematically, the MPC control loop
solves an open-loop optimal dispatch problem over a predefined prediction horizon
H. However, the core mechanism of this framework lies in its state-space feedback
loop: the controller executes only the optimal control action for the immediate first
time step, denoted as u∗
k [54]. Following this execution, the algorithm continuously
updates the actual system state xk+1 based on real-time sensor measurements and
shifts the prediction window forward.
This recursive mathematical adaptability
effectively neutralizes both forecasting errors and sudden physical disturbances
by continuously recalculating the optimal trajectory in real-time [55].
Further-
more, integrating real-time MPC with iterative ATC is computationally feasible
because it leverages a “warm-start” mechanism—reusing the previous time-step’s
optimum—which drastically reduces the required ATC iterations [56].
Within this dynamic rolling framework, the MPC objective function is explic-
itly formulated to enhance grid survivability during extreme events by incorporating
a VOLL penalty, represented as CVOLL. By mathematically weighting this penalty ac-
cording to load criticality, the MPC implements a physical execution strategy known
as graceful degradation. As the MG’s battery SOC inevitably depletes during ex-
tended blackouts, the algorithm utilizes the predictive foresight of the sliding window
to evaluate future capacity limits. It then proactively sheds low-priority demands
long before the battery is fully exhausted [57]. This proactive energy routing mathe-
matically guarantees the survival of critical infrastructure throughout prolonged dis-
ruptions, thereby minimizing the total VOLL penalty and maximizing physical grid
resilience. It must be explicitly stated, however, that this MPC model manages opera-
tions strictly at the energy scheduling level (Tertiary and Secondary Control). The in-
stantaneous inter-step dynamic stability, occurring within the millisecond timeframe,
5

is assumed to be independently governed by the underlying Primary Control layer.
1.5
Research Gap, Motivation, and Major Contributions
1.5.1
The Master Gap and Motivation
A critical review of the existing literature reveals that current methodologies
overwhelmingly address physical constraints, spatial coordination, and temporal dy-
namics in isolation. Specifically, three major limitations persist:
• Neglect of Exact Physics: Distributed optimization techniques often rely on
linearized power flow models, inherently ignoring the strict non-linear physical
constraints of the network.
• Privacy and Structural Vulnerabilities: Centralized solvers require aggregat-
ing sensitive parameters, thereby compromising prosumer data privacy and op-
erational security.
• Static Temporal Rigidity: Many coordination frameworks operate as open-
loop systems, rendering them mathematically rigid and incapable of dynamically
adapting to contingencies.
The master gap lies in the absence of a unified framework that guarantees exact
physical feasibility, preserves strict decentralized privacy, and adapts dynamically to
real-time disturbances. Consequently, the primary motivation of this thesis is to tran-
sition P2P energy coordination from a purely financial construct into a “Cooperative
Resilience” backbone to survive severe grid disturbances.
1.5.2
Major Contributions
To address these critical limitations, this research proposes a fundamentally new
operational paradigm for MMG networks. The major contributions of this thesis are:
1. Guaranteeing Voltage Stability in Decentralized Trading: We establish a
strict decoupling framework using SOCP. By limiting P2P trading to active
power (P) and autonomously managing reactive power (Q) locally, the system
guarantees exact non-linear physical feasibility and voltage stability.
2. Enabling Secure and Scalable Coordination: We develop a hierarchical, de-
centralized coordination strategy based on ATC. This securely facilitates com-
plex energy routing without aggregating sensitive data.
3. Achieving Proactive Resilience via Graceful Degradation: We introduce tem-
poral foresight into the dispatch process using MPC, guaranteeing the sustained
survival of critical infrastructure during prolonged outages.
4. Transforming P2P Markets into a Resilience Backbone: We successfully syn-
thesize the physical, spatial, and temporal dimensions into a cohesive tri-layer
architecture. Comprehensive validation proves that this unified approach em-
powers the P2P network to function as a highly robust, self-healing safety net.
6

Figure 1.2 The proposed Tri-layer Cooperative Resilience Architecture
1.6
Thesis Organization
The remainder of this thesis is logically structured to systematically present the
proposed framework, building from physical foundations to spatial coordination, and
finally temporal resilience. The organization is as follows:
• Chapter 2 - System Architecture and Mathematical Formulation: This chap-
ter establishes the physical layer of the MMG network. It details the AC-OPF
problem, explores the exact mathematical convexification via SOCP, and rig-
orously defines the local operational constraints for generators, ESSs, and the
distribution network.
• Chapter 3 - Spatial Coordination - ATC: This chapter addresses the spatial
scalability and data privacy of the system. It formulates the decentralized, hi-
erarchical coordination mechanism using ATC, detailing the strictly decoupled
target-response iterative process that clears P2P energy trades securely across the
network.
• Chapter 4 - Temporal Coordination with MPC: This chapter incorporates the
temporal dimension to ensure fault resilience. It describes the integration of
the MPC strategy, including the rolling-horizon dispatch mechanism and the im-
plementation of the VOLL penalty to achieve proactive “Graceful Degradation”
during emergency islanding.
• Chapter 5 - Results and Discussion: This chapter presents comprehensive
simulations of the unified SOCP-ATC-MPC architecture on a complex MMG
testbed. It evaluates the system’s economic efficiency under normal conditions
and extensively analyzes its extreme fault resilience during severe, compounded
physical disturbances.
• Chapter 6 - Conclusion: This chapter summarizes the primary findings and
contributions of the thesis, specifically addressing the resolution of the master
gap. Furthermore, it outlines potential avenues for future research to address
identified algorithmic limitations and hardware integrations.
7

CHAPTER 2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND MATHEMATICAL
FORMULATION
2.1
System Parameters, Sets, and Indices
To ensure realistic simulations and validate the proposed mathematical models,
the system parameters and input datasets are constructed based on physical config-
urations. The foundational global parameters and component data specifications are
detailed as follows:
• Global System Settings: The MMG network is normalized using a system base
apparent power (Sbase) of 1 MVA. The operational scheduling is performed over
a day-ahead time horizon denoted by T , comprising 24 intervals with a discrete
time step of ∆t = 1 hour.
• P2P Trading Limits: To respect the physical thermal capacities of the intercon-
nected cables, the active power exchanged via tie-lines (Ptie,i,t) between intercon-
nected MGs is strictly bounded within a trading limit of ±1.5 MW (equivalent
to 1.5 pu).
• VOLL: In severe emergency scenarios, load shedding may be unavoidable.
However, to guarantee the absolute protection of critical loads, VOLL associated
with critical load shedding (Pcritical
shed,i,t) is assigned a strict penalty (e.g., 100,000
cents/MWh). This heavy penalty strictly forces the optimization engine to en-
sure 100% continuous supply to critical demands.
• Input Data Profiles and Network Attributes: The dynamic 24-hour profiles
for active (Pload,i,t) and reactive (Qload,i,t) power demand, alongside the maximal
generation capacities for renewable sources (Ppeak
PV,i,t and Ppeak
WT,i,t), are derived from
physical load and source datasets. Furthermore, the structural network parame-
ters, including the resistance (Ri j) and reactance (Xi j) of all internal distribution
lines and tie-lines, are directly derived from detailed line configuration data to
accurately reflect the real-world network topology.
To formulate the mathematical models of the proposed MMG system, several
key sets and indices are defined. The operational time horizon is discretized into a set
of intervals denoted by T . Let M denote the set of all MGs in the network. Within
the system, the distribution network is represented by a set of nodes N and a set of
connecting distribution lines (branches) E . The specific sets of nodes equipped with
DERs are defined as follows: N PV for PV systems, N WT for WTs, N DG for DGs,
and N BESS for BESS.
Furthermore, the set of boundary nodes that possess tie-lines enabling physical
P2P active power trading with neighboring MGs is denoted by N trade. For the radial
topology of the distribution network, Ω(i) represents the set of all child nodes directly
connected to a parent node i, and C defines the set of available line configurations.
Throughout the formulation, subscripts i and j refer to spatial node or branch indices,
whereas the subscript t refers to the discrete time step.
8

2.2
Mathematical Modeling of Energy Components
This section details the mathematical formulation governing the operational
constraints of the various energy components deployed within the MG network. Fig-
ure 2.1 illustrates the internal configuration of a typical MG node, highlighting the
integration of renewable sources, energy storage, dispatchable generators, and local
loads.
Figure 2.1 Internal configuration of a typical Microgrid node. Source: Modern clean
energy microgrid diagram. Image by AllahFoto, licensed via Adobe Stock (Education
License).
2.2.1
RESs and Loads
The integration of RES, specifically PV systems and WT, alongside power loads,
constitutes the primary non-dispatchable elements of the network. The active power
output from PV and WT units is strictly bounded by their available forecasted genera-
tion peaks at any given time step t. The active power limits are formulated as follows:
0 ≤PPV,i,t ≤Ppeak
PV,i,t,
∀i ∈N PV,∀t
(2.1a)
0 ≤PWT,i,t ≤Ppeak
WT,i,t,
∀i ∈N WT,∀t
(2.1b)
where PPV,i,t and PWT,i,t denote the scheduled active power of the PV and WT at node
i during time t, respectively. Ppeak
PV,i,t and Ppeak
WT,i,t represent their maximum available
active power based on weather conditions.
For the load demand, both active (PL,i,t) and reactive (QL,i,t) power are treated as
fixed parameters unless load shedding is activated during emergency operations.
9

2.2.2
BESS
The BESS provides essential flexibility by charging during surplus periods and
discharging during generation shortages. To prevent simultaneous charging and dis-
charging, binary indicators uch,i,t and udis,i,t are introduced. The operational con-
straints for the BESS are defined as:
0 ≤Pch,i,t ≤uch,i,tPmax
BESS,
∀i ∈N BESS,∀t
(2.2a)
0 ≤Pdis,i,t ≤udis,i,tPmax
BESS,
∀i ∈N BESS,∀t
(2.2b)
uch,i,t +udis,i,t ≤1,
∀i ∈N BESS,∀t
(2.2c)
where Pch,i,t and Pdis,i,t are the charging and discharging power, respectively, bounded
by the maximum capacity Pmax
BESS.
The SOC (SOC) of the battery updates dynamically across consecutive time
intervals, constrained by the energy capacity (EBESS) and the round-trip efficiency
(ηBESS):
SOCi,t = SOCi,t−1 + Pch,i,tηBESS −Pdis,i,t/ηBESS
EBESS
,
∀t > 0
(2.3a)
SOCmin ≤SOCi,t ≤SOCmax,
∀t
(2.3b)
SOCi,0 = SOCi,24 = SOCini
(2.3c)
Equation (2.3c) ensures the energy neutrality of the BESS over a 24-hour daily cycle,
setting the initial and final SOC to a predefined level SOCini.
2.2.3
DG
DGs operate as controllable power sources, governed by their minimum and
maximum output boundaries. The operational status of the DG is indicated by a bi-
nary variable uDG,i,t. To ensure the technical limits of the DGs, additional constraints
including reactive power limits, startup status, minimum operating times, and spin-
ning reserve are defined as follows:
uDG,i,tPmin
DG ≤PDG,i,t ≤uDG,i,tPmax
DG ,
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4a)
(PDG,i,t)2 +(QDG,i,t)2 ≤(Smax
DG )2uDG,i,t,
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4b)
uDG,i,tQmin
DG ≤QDG,i,t ≤uDG,i,tQmax
DG ,
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4c)
vDG,i,t ≥uDG,i,t −uDG,i,t−1,
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4d)
t+T DG
up −1
∑
τ=t
uDG,i,τ ≥T DG
up vDG,i,t,
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4e)
t+T DG
down−1
∑
τ=t
(1−uDG,i,τ) ≥T DG
down(uDG,i,t−1 −uDG,i,t),
∀i ∈N DG,∀t
(2.4f)
RDG,t = ∑
i∈N DG
(uDG,i,tPmax
DG −PDG,i,t),
∀t
(2.4g)
RDG,t ≥0.2 ∑
i∈N DG
Pmax
DG ,
∀t
(2.4h)
10

where PDG,i,t and QDG,i,t are the active and reactive power of the DG, respectively,
and Smax
DG represents its maximum apparent power. vDG,i,t denotes the startup state,
and RDG,t represents the spinning reserve. The minimum up and down times are
defined by T DG
up and T DG
down.
Additionally, the variation in the DG’s power output between consecutive time
intervals is bounded by its ramp-up and ramp-down limits to prevent mechanical
stress:
−RDG ≤PDG,i,t −PDG,i,t−1 ≤RDG,
∀t > 0
(2.5)
where RDG is the maximum allowable ramping rate.
2.3
AC-OPF Formulation
AC-OPF model. Operating at the foundational level of the hierarchy, the lo-
cal AC-OPF problem is formulated to robustly handle both standard operation and
unexpected fault scenarios (such as generator failures, extreme renewable drops, or
main grid blackouts). To manage this, the system utilizes a binary emergency indi-
cator ΓE(t) ∈{0,1} to seamlessly toggle between normal operation (ΓE(t) = 0) and
an emergency fault state (ΓE(t) = 1), ensuring operational continuity and optimal
economic dispatch under any physical condition.
2.3.1
Economic and Loss Functions
The primary objective of the local MG operator is to minimize the total oper-
ational cost over the scheduling horizon T . To generalize the optimization problem
across varying grid conditions, the fundamental objective function unifies standard
economic costs and load shedding penalty costs.
The total operational cost function F OPF is expressed as:
F OPF = Fgrid +FDG +FBESS +Floss +Fshed
(2.6)
The individual economic and operational cost components are detailed as fol-
lows:
Fgrid = ∑
t∈T

πbuy,tPbuy
grid,t +πsell,tPsell
grid,t

(2.7a)
FDG = ∑
t∈T ∑
i∈N DG

αDGuDG,i,t +(βDG +κDG)PDG,i,t
+γDG(PDG,i,t)2 +Cstart,DGvDG,i,t

(2.7b)
FBESS = ∑
t∈T
∑
i∈N BESS
CBESS

ηBESSPch,i,t + Pdis,i,t
ηBESS

(2.7c)
Floss = ∑
t∈T ∑
(i,j)∈E
ωlossI2
i j,t
(2.7d)
Fshed = ∑
t∈T ∑
i∈N

Cnormal
shed
Pnormal
shed,i,t +Ccritical
shed
Pcritical
shed,i,t

(2.7e)
Here, Fgrid represents the cost of purchasing electricity and the revenue from
11

selling power to the main grid. FDG represents the operational cost of DGs, en-
compassing fixed, linear, and quadratic fuel costs, linear Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) costs (represented by coefficient κDG), and startup costs. FBESS calculates
the degradation cost of the battery storage system proportional to its charging and
discharging energy. To promote localized consumption and minimize distribution
losses, Floss represents the active power losses along the distribution lines, weighted
by a factor ωloss.
Finally, Fshed leverages static, prohibitively high VOLL multipliers (Cnormal
shed
,
Ccritical
shed
) to strictly penalize load curtailment and prioritize critical load preservation.
2.3.2
Operational Modes and Fault Scenarios
Rather than embedding fault logic directly into the physical equations (such as
the DistFlow boundaries), the system isolates unexpected events as explicit opera-
tional constraints. Depending on the operational state, denoted by ΓE(t) (introduced
in Section 2.3), specific mathematical conditions are enforced to reflect either stan-
dard operation or component failures.
To protect against severe power deficits during faults, the load shedding limits
are strictly defined by their physical capacity. Additionally, to maintain a constant
power factor, the reactive power shed is constrained to be strictly proportional to the
active power shed:
Pshed,j,t = Pnormal
shed,j,t +Pcritical
shed,j,t
(2.8a)
0 ≤Pnormal
shed,j,t ≤0.8Pload,j,t
(2.8b)
0 ≤Pcritical
shed,j,t ≤0.2Pload,j,t
(2.8c)
Qshed,j,t = Pshed,j,t
Qload,j,t
Pload,j,t
(2.8d)
The transition between modes is mathematically handled as follows:
• Normal Mode (ΓE(t) = 0): The MG operates with all components fully avail-
able. Due to the prohibitive VOLL penalties (Ccritical
shed
≫Cnormal
shed
≫costbuy) in
the objective function (2.7e), the shedding variables are naturally forced to zero
by the optimizer. The system maintains its standard security margins, including
the required spinning reserve as defined in (2.4h).
• Emergency Mode (ΓE(t) = 1): The system experiences a severe disruption,
which could encompass a main grid blackout, a local generator trip, or an ex-
treme drop in renewable generation. The failed component k is mathematically
isolated by forcing its power output and exchange variables to zero:
Pk,t = 0,
Qk,t = 0
∀k ∈Ωfault
(2.9)
where Ωfault represents the set of components experiencing an outage (e.g., the
main grid interconnection, specific DGs, or PV units).
To counteract the resulting power deficit, the standard spinning reserve constraint
(2.4h) is intentionally relaxed. This relaxation allows the remaining dispatchable
12

generators to fully utilize their 20% locked reserve capacity to maintain grid sta-
bility. If the internal generation remains insufficient, the solver is permitted to
shed load according to (2.8b)-(2.8c), strongly guided by the economic prioritiza-
tion in Fshed to preserve critical loads.
2.3.3
Distribution Power Flow Constraints
The power flow within the radial network of the MGs is modeled using the
original non-linear Branch Flow Model (DistFlow) equations. The active and reactive
power balance, voltage drop, and branch current definitions are formulated as follows:
Pline,i j,t −Ri jI2
i j,t +PDG,j,t +PPV,j,t +PWT,j,t +Pdis,j,t −Pch,j,t
+Ptie,j,t +Pshed,j,t −Pload,j,t = ∑
k∈Ω(j)
Pline,jk,t
∀j ∈N ,∀t ∈T
(2.10a)
Qline,i j,t −Xi jI2
i j,t +QDG,j,t
+Qshed,j,t −Qload,j,t = ∑
k∈Ω(j)
Qline,jk,t
∀j ∈N ,∀t ∈T
(2.10b)
V 2
j,t = V 2
i,t −2(Ri jPline,i j,t +Xi jQline,i j,t)+(R2
i j +X2
i j)I2
i j,t
∀(i, j) ∈E ,∀t ∈T
(2.10c)
I2
ij,t =
P2
line,i j,t +Q2
line,i j,t
V 2
i,t
∀(i, j) ∈E ,∀t ∈T
(2.10d)
(V min)2 ≤V 2
j,t ≤(V max)2
∀j ∈N ,∀t ∈T
(2.10e)
0 ≤I2
i j,t ≤(Imax)2
∀(i, j) ∈E ,∀t ∈T
(2.10f)
To correctly model the interaction with the main grid, a boundary condition is
enforced at the slack bus (denoted as node j = 0). The branch power injected into the
root node from the external network explicitly represents the grid power exchange:
Pline,0,t = Pbuy
grid,t +Psell
grid,t,
∀t ∈T
(2.11a)
Qline,0,t = Qgrid,t,
∀t ∈T
(2.11b)
Equations (2.10a) and (2.10b) delineate the active and reactive power balance
at node j at time t, respectively. The sum of all active power injected into node
j—including the incoming branch power (Pline,i j,t), distributed generation (PDG,j,t),
renewable active power generation (PPV,j,t,PWT,j,t), BESS net discharge (Pdis,j,t −
Pch,j,t), P2P trading (Ptie,j,t), and load shedding (Pshed,j,t)—must equal the sum of
the power flowing out to child branches ∑Pline,jk,t, the local load demand (Pload,j,t),
and the line active power losses (Ri jI2
i j,t). By convention, active power sold to the grid
(Psell
grid,t) takes non-positive values.
Similarly, the reactive power balance in (2.10b) accounts for branch flows
(Qline,i j,t), DG reactive support (QDG,j,t), and reactive load shedding (Qshed,j,t). No-
tably, the renewable energy inverters (PV and WT) are configured to operate at unity
power factor, contributing zero reactive power to the system.
13

Equation (2.10c) governs the voltage drop along branch (i, j), considering the
line impedance (Ri j,Xi j) and branch flows. Equation (2.10d) represents the non-linear
definition of the squared branch current. Finally, inequalities (2.10e) and (2.10f) en-
sure that the squared nodal voltages and branch currents remain within their secure
operational limits. This exact DistFlow model is specifically chosen as it inherently
captures the physical radial topology of the MGs, forming the strict prerequisite for
subsequent global optimization. However, due to the non-linear and non-convex na-
ture of the current definition in (2.10d), this problem requires convexification via
SOCP to be mathematically tractable for optimization solvers.
2.4
SOCP Relaxation and Exactness
The selection of an appropriate OPF model involves navigating the strict trade-
off between physical accuracy and computational feasibility. As illustrated in Figure
2.2, simplistic models like DC-OPF fail to capture reactive power and voltage dynam-
ics, rendering them unsafe for distribution networks with high R/X ratios. Conversely,
while the Full AC-OPF guarantees physical fidelity, its non-convex nature makes it
computationally intractable for real-time emergency dispatch. Therefore, the SOCP
relaxation is adopted as the optimal pathway, striking the perfect balance between
global optimality and strict AC physics.
Figure 2.2 Evolution of Optimal Power Flow models and the justification for the
SOCP approach.
2.4.1
Convexification and SOC Relaxation
The non-linear nature of the AC-OPF fundamentally stems from the current
magnitude definition in the Branch Flow Model. As originally stated in Equation
(2.10d), the squared branch current is formulated as:
I2
i j,t =
P2
line,i j,t +Q2
line,i j,t
V 2
i,t
14

This equality constraint is highly non-convex. To achieve a computationally tractable
convex model, the SOC relaxation transforms the non-convex feasible region into a
convex cone by replacing the equality with an inequality:
I2
ij,tV 2
i,t ≥P2
line,i j,t +Q2
line,i j,t
(2.12)
Figure 2.3 Geometric visualization of the SOCP relaxation: The non-convex equality
constraint (hollow surface) is relaxed into a convex inequality (solid feasible region),
thereby transforming the problem space into a globally solvable convex cone.
2.4.2
Exactness in Normal Mode
The fundamental premise of substituting an equality with an inequality is predi-
cated on the concept of exactness—the condition where the optimizer natively forces
the inequality (2.12) to hold with equality. In the Normal Mode of operation, this
exactness is inherently guaranteed. As defined in the objective function (2.6), the for-
mulation incorporates a dedicated loss penalty component, Floss (2.7d). Because the
primary objective of the solver is to minimize the total operational cost, it actively sup-
presses the squared current variable I2
i j,t, strictly driving it towards its theoretical lower
bound. Consequently, the inequality holds with equality (I2
i j,tV 2
i,t = P2
line,i j,t +Q2
line,i j,t),
thereby guaranteeing the exactness of the SOCP model and accurately reflecting the
true physical state of the distribution grid.
2.4.3
Robustness against Inexactness in Emergency Mode
While exactness is guaranteed under standard operations, the mathematical liter-
ature suggests that significant challenges can arise during extreme Emergency Modes.
A typical vulnerability occurs during islanded operations with a significant surplus of
renewable energy generation. In standard models lacking curtailment mechanisms,
if the MG cannot export this excess power, the system risks violating the exactness
(I2
ij,tV 2
i,t > P2
line,i j,t +Q2
line,i j,t), which renders the optimization results physically mean-
ingless. This breakdown occurs because the mathematical solver might erroneously
exploit the SOCP relaxation gap, artificially inflating the current variable I2
i j,t to burn
the surplus energy as fictitious line losses.
However, the proposed MG formulation is intrinsically designed to effectively
15

counteract this phenomenon. The renewable generation constraints natively allow
for free active power curtailment (2.1a).
Confronted with excess generation, the
solver will preferentially curtail the renewable output at zero cost rather than inflating
I2
ij,t, which would incur a strict financial penalty via the Floss term scaled by ωloss.
This dual mechanism—free curtailment capability combined with a strict virtual loss
penalty—ensures that the solver is mathematically prevented from exploiting the re-
laxation gap. As a result, the model robustly preserves the physical integrity and
exactness of the network’s power flow equations even amidst extreme emergency and
over-generation scenarios.
2.5
Final Local SOCP Optimization Model
Integrating the operational cost components from Section 2.3.1 and the relaxed
physical network constraints, the final SOCP model is formulated. Although the prob-
lem is implemented and solved as a single unified code using the emergency indicator
ΓE(t), from a mathematical presentation perspective, the active objective function and
constraints can be categorized into two distinct formulations based on the operational
state.
2.5.1
Formulation I: Normal Operation Mode (ΓE(t) = 0)
In standard grid-connected mode, the load shedding penalty enforces zero cur-
tailment (Fshed →0). The objective is purely focused on economic costs and loss
minimization. The problem is defined as:
min
F OPF
normal = Fgrid +FDG +FBESS +Floss
s.t.
Component Constraints (2.1a)−(2.5)
Standard Spinning Reserve (2.4h)
DistFlow Boundary Conditions (2.11)
Power Balance & Voltage Constraints (2.10a)−(2.10c),(2.10e)−(2.10f)
SOCP Relaxed Current Constraint (2.12)
(2.13)
2.5.2
Formulation II: Emergency Mode (ΓE(t) = 1)
When a generalized fault occurs, power generation or exchange with the affected
components k ∈Ωfault completely ceases. Consequently, the operational costs associ-
ated with these specific failed components are eliminated from the objective function
(as their power outputs are forced to zero). The primary goal of the remaining MG
transitions from pure economic profit to system resilience, leveraging the unlocked
reserve capacity and prioritizing critical load preservation. The problem transitions
16

to:
min
F OPF
emergency = Fgrid +FDG +FBESS +Floss +Fshed
s.t.
Component Constraints (2.1a)−(2.5)
Load Shedding Limits (2.8a)−(2.8d)
Operational Fault Constraints (2.9)
DistFlow Boundary Conditions (2.11)
Power Balance & Voltage Constraints (2.10a)−(2.10c),(2.10e)−(2.10f)
SOCP Relaxed Current Constraint (2.12)
(2.14)
17

CHAPTER 3. SPATIAL COORDINATION - ATC
3.1
ATC Overview
The operation of MMG (Multi-MG) systems entails a complex spatial coordi-
nation problem. Traditional centralized operations require MGs to transmit all their
local, potentially sensitive information—such as load demand, renewable generation
profiles, BESS constraints—to a central operator. This paradigm not only creates
computational bottlenecks for large-scale systems but also severely compromises the
privacy of independent MG operators.
To resolve these physical and informational challenges, the ATC framework is
introduced. ATC is a distributed optimization technique originally developed for mul-
tidisciplinary design optimization, which perfectly aligns with the hierarchical struc-
ture of modern distribution networks. Figure 3.4 illustrates the conceptual topology
of this Multi-Microgrid (MMG) system, where individual MGs can seamlessly trade
active power through physical tie-lines while coordinating with the Main Grid. By
decomposing the global OPF problem, ATC divides the Multi-MG system into a two-
level hierarchical architecture:
Figure 3.4 Conceptual topology of the interconnected Multi-Microgrid system.
• Coordinator Level (Upper Level): DSO or Utility Grid serves as the central co-
ordinator. The DSO assigns the optimal target variables Ptarget,i j,t (conceptually
acting as the ideal tie-line reference) to achieve P2P consensus.
• Local MG Level (Lower Level): Each individual MG operates as an indepen-
dent autonomous entity. Utilizing the target signals provided by the coordinator,
each local MG solves an SOCP problem to determine its optimal internal asset
dispatch and the scheduled tie-line power exchange Ptie,i j,t.
18

Through an iterative exchange of limited boundary variables (the target power
Ptarget,i j,t and the tie-line response Ptie,i j,t) alongside penalty multipliers, the ATC al-
gorithm guides the MMG system toward a globally optimal equilibrium without ex-
posing any internal constraints or local asset states. For mathematical clarity regard-
ing directional power flow, the active power traded via the tie-line connecting MG i
to MG j at time t is denoted as Ptie,i j,t.
Figure 3.5 Ensuring data privacy and independent P2P trading.
3.2
The Coordinator Problem (Utility Grid)
At the top level of the ATC hierarchy, the Coordinator (Utility Grid) serves as the
central authority to establish P2P consensus. The objective function of the coordinator
is formulated to penalize the mismatch between the coordinator’s target Ptarget,i j,t and
the previous iteration’s optimal tie-line scheduled power P∗,k
tie,i j,t submitted by the local
MGs, subject to strict reciprocity (Ptarget,i j,t +Ptarget,ji,t = 0). The optimizatiSOCPon
problem is given by:
min
∑
t∈T
∑
(i,j)∈L trade
h
λ k
i j,t

P∗,k
tie,i j,t −Ptarget,i j,t

+
ρk
i j,t
2

Ptarget,i j,t −P∗,k
tie,i j,t
2
#
s.t.
Ptarget,i j,t +Ptarget,ji,t = 0
(3.1)
By solving this optimization problem, the coordinator formulates the target variable
Ptarget,i j,t that the lower-level MGs must track, yielding the optimal explicit target
Ptarget,i j,t =

P∗,k
tie,i j,t −P∗,k
tie,ji,t

/2.
where:
• Ptarget,i j,t is the decision variable representing the optimal trading target deter-
mined by the coordinator for the power flow from node i to node j at time t.
• P∗,k
tie,i j,t is the fixed local tie-line power exchange from i to j scheduled by the
lower-level MG at the current iteration k.
19

• λ k
i j,t is the linear Lagrange multiplier (shadow price) for active power trading at
iteration k.
• ρk
i j,t is the quadratic penalty multiplier at iteration k, strictly penalizing the spatial
deviation between the target and the local response.
After solving the optimal target P∗,k
target,i j,t and receiving the updated P∗,k
tie,i j,t from
the lower-level MGs, the coordinator updates the penalty multipliers for the next iter-
ation to drive the deviation to zero. The update equations for the multipliers (λ and
ρ) are defined as follows:
λ k+1
i j,t = λ k
i j,t +ρk
i j,t

P∗,k
tie,i j,t −P∗,k
target,i j,t

(3.2a)
ρk+1
i j,t =





τρk
i j,t
if (rk
i j,t)2 > µ(sk
i j,t)2
ρk
i j,t/τ
if (sk
i j,t)2 > µ(rk
i j,t)2
ρk
i j,t
otherwise
(3.2b)
where the primal residual (mismatch) rk
i j,t and the dual residual (speed) sk
i j,t are ex-
plicitly defined to measure the convergence as follows:
rk
i j,t = P∗,k
tie,i j,t +P∗,k
tie,ji,t
(3.3a)
sk
ij,t = ρk
i j,t
P∗,k
tie,i j,t −P∗,k−1
tie,i j,t

(3.3b)
The balancing parameters are set as τ = 1.5 and µ = 10. These specific values are
empirically tuned based on the network’s impedance characteristics and operating
bounds to ensure the monotonic convergence of the dual gap. This Adaptive Residual
Balancing approach dynamically adjusts the penalty parameter to maintain a balance
between primal and dual feasibility, significantly accelerating the convergence of the
ATC algorithm.
3.3
The Local MG Problem with ATC
In the ATC architecture, MGs receive the updated penalty multipliers (λ k
i j,t,ρk
i j,t)
and the optimal reference target (Pk−1
target,i j,t) broadcasted by the central Coordinator
(Utility Grid). To align their local schedules with the global consensus, each MG
integrates an Augmented Lagrangian penalty function into its base optimization ob-
jective.
The base objectives of each MG, defined as F OPF
normal for grid-connected modes
and F OPF
emergency for islanded states (as previously established in Chapter 2), are mathe-
matically penalized for any spatial discrepancy. The Augmented Lagrangian penalty
function corresponding to the active power deviation along the tie-lines is formulated
as follows:
FATC
penalty,i = ∑
t∈T ∑
j∈Ni
h
λ k
i j,t

Ptie,i j,t −Pk−1
target,i j,t

+
ρk
i j,t
2

Ptie,i j,t −Pk−1
target,i j,t
2
#
(3.4)
where Ni represents the set of neighboring MGs directly connected to MG i.
20

The incorporation of this penalty effectively bridges the gap between the decen-
tralized operation and the global targets. The newly modified local ATC objective
function, which each MG i aims to minimize autonomously, is therefore defined as:
F OPF
ATC,i = F OPF
i
+FATC
penalty,i
(3.5)
where F OPF
i
represents either F OPF
normal or F OPF
emergency depending on the prevailing op-
erational condition of the network for MG i.
Consequently, the local problem is formulated as an SOCP model subject to its
complete set of local operational and physical constraints defined in Chapter 2. Upon
convergence of its local optimization, the MG transmits only the resulting scheduled
tie-line active power exchange, Ptie,i j,t, back to the Utility Grid Coordinator for the
subsequent ATC iteration.
3.4
ATC Iterative Algorithm and Convergence
Algorithm 1 Decentralized ATC Algorithm
1: Initialization: Set iteration counter k ←1.
2: Initialize multipliers λ 1
i j,t = 0, ρ1
i j,t = ρ0 for all (i, j) ∈L trade,t ∈T .
3: Initialize targets P0
target,i j,t = 0 and schedules P0
tie,i j,t = 0.
4: repeat
5:
Lower Level: Local MG Optimization (Parallel Execution)
6:
for each MG i ∈M do
7:
Receive global signals Pk−1
target,i j,t, λ k
i j,t, ρk
i j,t from the Coordinator.
8:
Solve the penalized local OPF minimizing F OPF
ATC,i via (3.5).
9:
Extract optimal schedule Pk
tie,i j,t and transmit to the Coordinator.
10:
end for
11:
Upper Level: Coordinator Update
12:
Calculate primal rk
i j,t and dual sk
i j,t residuals via (3.3).
13:
Update the optimal target Pk
target,i j,t to enforce consensus.
14:
Update Lagrange multipliers λ k+1
i j,t via (3.2a).
15:
Adjust penalty parameters ρk+1
i j,t via Adaptive Residual Balancing (3.2b).
16:
k ←k +1
17: until (rk−1
i j,t )2 ≤εstop and (sk−1
i j,t )2 ≤εstop for 3 consecutive steps.
ATC algorithm is an iterative process that alternates between solving the lo-
cal MG optimization problems and updating the coordinator’s target variables and
penalty multipliers. The step-by-step procedure at iteration k is detailed as follows:
Step 1: Initialization.
Set the iteration counter k = 1.
Initialize the La-
grange multipliers λ 1
i j,t = 0, the penalty parameters ρ1
i j,t = ρ0, the initial tie-line power
schedules P0
tie,i j,t = 0, and the initial targets P0
target,i j,t = 0 for all directional tie-lines
(i, j) ∈L trade and time intervals t ∈T .
Step 2: Local MG Optimization. Each MG autonomously solves its penalized
OPF problem as defined in (3.5), utilizing the target variables from the previous iter-
ation Pk−1
target,i j,t. The optimal tie-line active power exchange Pk
tie,i j,t is determined and
21

subsequently transmitted to the Coordinator.
Step 3: Coordinator Update. Upon receiving the tie-line power schedules
from all interacting MGs, the Coordinator updates the target variables, multipliers,
and adaptive penalty parameters to enforce P2P consensus. First, the primal resid-
ual rk
ij,t and dual residual sk
i j,t are calculated to measure the spatial mismatch and the
algorithm’s progress. Then, the target variable Pk
target,i j,t is updated to drive the con-
sensus. The Lagrange multipliers and adaptive penalty parameters (λ k+1
i j,t
and ρk+1
i j,t )
are sequentially updated according to the explicit rules defined in (3.2a) and (3.2b).
Step 4: Convergence Check. The iterative algorithm terminates when both the
primal and dual residuals satisfy the convergence tolerance εstop (set to 10−4) for three
consecutive iterations. If the criteria are met, the algorithm stops and the final optimal
scheduling is achieved. Otherwise, the iteration counter is incremented (k ←k + 1)
and the process returns to Step 2.
Start ATC Algorithm
Step 1: Initialization
k = 1,λ = 0,ρ = ρ0,Ptarget = 0
Broadcast global signals
to all MGs
Step 2: MG Optimization
Solve local penalized SOCP
Extract Pk
tie
Step 3: Coordinator Update
Calculate residuals rk,sk
Update Pk
target,λ k+1,ρk+1
Step 4: Converged?
r2,s2 ≤εstop?
Stop: Equilibrium Achieved
Increment
k ←k +1
Yes
No
Figure 3.6 Flowchart of the Decentralized ATC Algorithm.
22

CHAPTER 4. TEMPORAL COORDINATION WITH MPC
4.1
MPC Time Framework
In the operational context of MMG systems, independent optimization at a sin-
gle time instance or a fixed time frame is often inadequate to cope with unpredictable
fluctuations from load demand (Pload,i,t, Qload,i,t) and RESs (Ppeak
PV,i,t, Ppeak
WT,i,t), as well as
unexpected events such as main grid disconnection. To address this challenge, MPC
is implemented as the highest-level Temporal Coordination layer.
To address unpredictable RES and load fluctuations, the system employs an
MPC rolling horizon (h), where only the first optimal control step is applied to counter
immediate physical deviations, inherently coupling the day-ahead economics with
real-time stability. In this proposed architecture, the temporal framework is strictly
divided into two primary phases: Day-Ahead Scheduling and Real-Time Emergency
MPC.
4.1.1
Day-Ahead Scheduling
During the Day-Ahead Scheduling phase, the optimization problem is formu-
lated and solved for the entire 24-hour cycle of the upcoming day, meaning the pre-
diction horizon is set to h = 24 hours. The primary objective is to establish an eco-
nomically optimal operational plan based on long-term forecasts of renewable power
generation (Ppeak
PV,i,t, Ppeak
WT,i,t) and load demand (Pload,i,t, Qload,i,t).
In this phase, BESS operations are modeled using variables such as Pch,i,t, Pdis,i,t,
uch,i,t, and udis,i,t. Furthermore, DG dispatch actions are represented by uDG,i,t and
vDG,i,t, aiming to minimize the overall operational costs while ensuring sufficient
spinning reserve capacity (RDG,t).
4.1.2
Real-Time Emergency MPC
To address immediate deviations, fault clearing, component isolation, and dy-
namic responses during emergencies, the Real-Time Emergency MPC is activated.
This phase employs a rolling horizon of h = 5 hours. At each time step t ∈T , the
system updates the latest measurements regarding renewable generation, actual load,
and the current SOC of the BESS (SOCi,t). The optimization problem is continuously
re-evaluated over the sliding window from t to t +h−1.
During emergency conditions, the system dynamically re-evaluates the opera-
tional dispatch and activates load shedding or tie-line re-coordination (detailed mech-
anisms are formulated in Section 4.3).
23

Time
Step
t
t+1
t+2
t+3
t+4
t+5
t+6
t+k
t+k+1 t+k+2 t+k+3 t+k+4
...
t
1-1
1-2
1-3
1-4
1-5
t +1
Past
2-1
2-2
2-3
2-4
2-5
t +2
Past
Past
3-1
3-2
3-3
3-4
3-5
...
...
...
...
...
t +k
Past
Past
Past
...
k-1
k-2
k-3
k-4
k-5
Executed
1-1
2-1
3-1
...
k-1
Scheduled (Past)
Applied Control
Predicted Action
Horizon
Figure 4.7 MPC Rolling Horizon Framework
4.2
State Update and Forecasting Mechanism
At each discrete time step t, before the optimization problem is formulated and
solved for the upcoming prediction horizon h, the system must inherit the latest physi-
cal states from the previous control action and integrate the newly acquired forecasting
vectors.
4.2.1
SOC Inheritance
In the context of the MMG system, maintaining the continuity of the BESS state
of charge (SOC) is crucial. The SOC at the beginning of the new rolling horizon
must accurately reflect the state resulting from the control actions implemented in the
previous step.
For a prediction horizon starting at the current time step t, the initial SOC pa-
rameter, denoted as SOCini for the current optimization window, is directly updated
by the realized SOC from the end of the previous time step t −1:
SOCini = SOCi,t−1
∀i ∈N BESS
(4.1)
where SOCi,t−1 represents the SOC of the BESS at node i evaluated at the prior inter-
val. This value serves as the initial boundary condition for the BESS constraints over
the new prediction horizon.
Consequently, the SOC transition within the predictive window for any prospec-
tive step τ ∈[t,t +h−1] is formulated based on the charging (Pch,i,τ) and discharging
(Pdis,i,τ) power variables:
SOCi,τ = SOCi,τ−1 + ηBESSPch,i,τ
EBESS
∆t −
Pdis,i,τ
ηBESSEBESS
∆t
∀i ∈N BESS
(4.2)
where ηBESS denotes the charging/discharging efficiency, and EBESS is the total en-
ergy capacity of the BESS.
4.2.2
Forecasting Data Update Mechanism
Beyond the state inheritance, the MPC architecture requires continuous refresh-
ing of the anticipated uncontrollable variables, specifically the active and reactive
24

load demand, alongside the renewable energy generation capabilities.
At each control iteration starting at time t, the EMS retrieves the most recent
forecast profiles. These predictions are structured as vectors spanning the entire pre-
diction horizon h. The forecasting vectors updated at step t are formally defined as
follows:
• Load Demand Forecasts: The active and reactive power demand vectors for
each node i are updated as:
P(t)
load,i =

Pload,i,t,Pload,i,t+1,...,Pload,i,t+h−1
T
(4.3)
Q(t)
load,i =

Qload,i,t,Qload,i,t+1,...,Qload,i,t+h−1
T
(4.4)
• Renewable Energy Forecasts: Similarly, PV and WT generation is integrated
into the control model via vectors:
P(t)
PV,i =
h
Ppeak
PV,i,t,Ppeak
PV,i,t+1,...,Ppeak
PV,i,t+h−1
iT
(4.5)
P(t)
WT,i =
h
Ppeak
WT,i,t,Ppeak
WT,i,t+1,...,Ppeak
WT,i,t+h−1
iT
(4.6)
Without the continuous inheritance of SOCini and the rolling refresh of these
forecast vectors, the MPC would lack the foresight required to execute the inter-
temporal spatial coupling critical for emergency operations (Mode 2).
4.3
The 3-Mode Spatiotemporal Coordination Framework
MPC strategy inherently relies on a dynamic rolling mechanism that functions
as a state machine. To efficiently manage computational resources while ensuring
system resilience, the spatiotemporal coordination framework is explicitly structured
into three distinct operating modes: Mode 1 (Normal Operation), Mode 2 (Emergency
Mode), and Mode 3 (Recovery Mode).
4.3.1
Mode 1 and Mode 3: Normal Operation and Recovery
Under normal operating conditions (Mode 1), where no faults are detected
within the distribution network, the real-time dispatch simply tracks the established
Day-Ahead schedule. In this state, the actual operational variables strictly follow
the day-ahead baseline, meaning the system state xt and control actions ut satisfy
ut = uDA
t
. This baseline schedule is derived from the 24-hour ATC SOCP optimiza-
tion problem described in Chapter 4 (Eq. 3.5). Thus, the system operates securely
without the need for iterative rolling horizon recalculations, thereby significantly con-
serving computational resources.
However, when a fault is cleared following an emergency event, the system tran-
sitions into Mode 3 (Recovery Mode). Rather than immediately resuming the poten-
tially outdated Day-Ahead schedule, the EMS recalculates a new optimal operational
plan from the current time tend
faults to the end of the 24-hour cycle, yielding a shrinking
prediction horizon Hrec = {tend
faults,tend
faults + 1,...,24}. The updated forecast vectors
(Eqs. 4.3–4.6) are integrated into the optimization engine, and the modified ATC
25

Start: Day-Ahead
Scheduling
For each time
step t = 1 to 24
Fault status
at step t?
Mode 2
(Emergency, h = 5)
Activate Constraints
Call Spatial ATC
Mode 1
(Normal)
Apply DA Schedule
Mode 3
(Recovery,
h = 25 −t)
Call Spatial ATC
Update DA Baseline
End of step t
No Fault
Fault Detected
Fault Cleared
Figure 4.8 Flowchart of the 3-Mode State Machine Algorithm
26

Global Objective is solved to establish a new operational baseline:
min
24
∑
τ=t ∑
n∈NMG
FMG,n(τ)
(4.7)
Once this new updated baseline schedule uDA∗
τ
is successfully deployed, the system
securely reverts to Mode 1.
4.3.2
Mode 2: Emergency Integration of Spatial and Temporal Control
In the face of extreme scenarios such as N −2 contingencies and main grid
connection faults (resulting in complete islanding where Pbuy
grid,t = 0 and Psell
grid,t = 0),
relying solely on independent spatial or temporal coordination is mathematically and
physically insufficient. When multiple cascading line outages occur, the network
topology is severely compromised. This physical deterioration forces instant updates
to the dynamic topology and operational boundaries.
To counteract this physical collapse, the system enters Mode 2 (Emergency
Mode), employing a bottom-up integration strategy that intrinsically couples the ATC
spatial algorithm with the MPC rolling horizon framework. This synergistic approach
allows the MMG system to maintain rigorous operational resilience under critical
conditions.
The integration mechanism is formally structured such that the MPC layer acts
as the primary temporal coordinator, dictating the rolling horizon scheduling. Within
each time step t of the MPC’s sliding predictive window HMPC = {t,t +1,...,t +h−
1}, the ATC spatial algorithm, formulated as a penalized SOCP problem, is iteratively
invoked.
For each prospective control interval τ ∈HMPC, the MPC provides the tem-
poral coupling via the updated SOC inheritance SOCi,τ (Eq.
4.2), alongside
the most recent forecasting vectors for load demand and renewable generation
(P(t)
load,i,Q(t)
load,i,P(t)
PV,i,P(t)
WT,i). The ATC algorithm then iteratively optimizes the spatial
power distribution and active power traded via inter-MG tie-lines (Ptie,i j,τ) by mini-
mizing the ATC Global Objective (Eq. 3.5). The distributed coordination mathemati-
cally relies on updating the Augmented Lagrangian multiplier λi j,τ and the penalty pa-
rameter ρi j,τ to reach an optimal consensus on the target traded active power Ptarget,i j,τ
designated by the DSO. At each iteration k, the multiplier update step is executed as:
λ (k+1)
i j,τ
= λ (k)
i j,τ +ρ(k)
i j,τ

P(k)
tie,i j,τ −P(k)
target,i j,τ

∀τ ∈HMPC
(4.8)
By explicitly embedding the ATC SOCP solver within the outer MPC loop, the control
system mathematically guarantees that both the inter-temporal energy constraints and
the spatial power flow limits—including the tightened apparent power flow bounds
and nodal voltage magnitude constraints (V 2
min ≤V 2
i,τ ≤V 2
max)—are strictly satisfied at
every temporal stage.
4.3.3
Activation of Penalty Functions and Load Shedding Mechanism
During emergency mode operations, available local generation and BESS dis-
charge capacity may fail to cover the aggregated demand. Unconstrained optimization
27

would aggressively discharge the BESS to meet immediate deficits, leading to termi-
nal depletion (SOCi,t approaching SOCmin) and rendering the MMG defenseless for
future intervals.
To enforce Graceful Degradation, load shedding is decoupled into normal and
critical loads with hierarchical VOLL coefficients, and simultaneously, a terminal
SOC penalty (JSOC) is activated.
The load shedding cost function incorporates a penalty cost for normal load
shedding Cnormal
shed
and a significantly higher penalty cost for critical load shedding
Ccritical
shed
:
Jshed,τ = ∑
i∈N

Cnormal
shed
Pnormal
shed,i,τ +Ccritical
shed
Pcritical
shed,i,τ

(4.9)
To physically prevent BESS depletion, a slack variable SSOC,i and a penalty co-
efficient βSOC are introduced. The MPC strictly penalizes the deviation of the BESS
SOC at the end of the predictive horizon from a secure reference level:
JSOC =
∑
i∈N BESS
βSOCS2
SOC,i
(4.10)
By structuring the penalty weights such that Ccritical
shed
≫βSOC > Cnormal
shed
, the
SOCP mathematically guarantees that flexible loads are curtailed early to preserve
BESS reserves, ensuring the sustained operation of critical infrastructure. This tem-
poral safeguard works in tandem with the spatial penalty coefficient for distribution
network power losses ωloss, ensuring sustainable multi-interval resilience.
Through this cohesive integration, the ATC SOCP algorithm resolves spatial
power flow conflicts while the MPC framework optimizes the inter-temporal energy
buffering and load shedding deployment, enabling the MMG system to navigate N −2
contingencies and main grid disconnections seamlessly.
Algorithm 2: Bottom-Up Spatiotemporal Coordination as a 3-Mode State Machine
Require: Real-time network measurements, BESS characteristics, Forecast models.
1: DAY-AHEAD SCHEDULING PHASE
2: Fetch long-term 24-hour forecasts PDA
load,PDA
PV,PDA
WT
3: Solve ATC Global Objective for the entire 24-hour horizon (h = 24)
4: Establish Day-Ahead baseline schedule uDA for t ∈[1,24]
5: REAL-TIME EMERGENCY MPC PHASE
6: for each time step t = 1 to 24 do
7:
STEP 1: STATE UPDATE
8:
Read current BESS status and inherit SOCini according to Eq. (4.1)
9:
STEP 2: MODE BRANCHING & EVENT DETECTION
10:
if No fault then
11:
Mode 1 (Normal Operation):
12:
Extract data and decisions from Day-Ahead baseline: ut = uDA
t
13:
Apply scheduled control signals for step t
14:
else if Fault detected at current hour t then
28

15:
Mode 2 (Emergency Mode):
16:
Horizon h ←5 ▷Note: Forecast vectors seamlessly extend beyond t = 24
for late-day windows
17:
Fetch rolling forecast vectors P(t)
load,i,Q(t)
load,i (Eq. 4.3–4.4)
18:
Fetch renewable potential P(t)
PV,i,P(t)
WT,i (Eq. 4.5–4.6)
19:
Physical Cause: Isolate mathematically identified faulty components
(2.9).
20:
Physical Effect: Enforce tightened nodal voltage bounds (2.10e)
and activate load shedding allowance (2.8a)–(2.8c).
21:
Algorithmic Response: Activate Emergency Mode Constraints (ΓE(τ) =
1).
22:
Update Objective Function: Switch to F OPF
emergency (2.14)
and add SOC penalty JSOC (4.10).
23:
STEP 3: ROLLING HORIZON OPTIMIZATION LOOP
24:
Call Spatial ATC Algorithm to optimize spatial power flow
25:
Compute SOC transitions simultaneously using Eq. (4.2)
26:
Iteratively solve ATC Global Objective (3.5) for period τ ∈[t,t +h−1].
27:
Enforce tie-line target exchange agreement ▷Solver intrinsically handles
power deficits via shedding penalties
28:
STEP 4: CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION
29:
Extract optimized decision variables for the entire horizon τ ∈[t,t +h−1]
30:
Apply only the control signals for the first step τ = t to physical assets
(BESS, DG, Loads)
31:
else if Fault cleared at current step t then
32:
Mode 3 (Recovery Mode):
33:
Horizon h ←25−t
34:
Physical Cause: Fetch forecast vectors and renewable potential
(Eq. 4.3–4.6) to evaluate residual state divergence.
35:
Algorithmic Response: Iteratively solve ATC Global Objective
(3.5) for period τ ∈[t,24].
36:
Physical Effect: Update Day-Ahead baseline schedule uDA
with newly calculated decisions.
37:
Extract and apply control signals for step t from the new baseline.
38:
end if
39: end for
29

CHAPTER 5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
5.1
System Configuration and Simulation Setup
The physical architecture of the proposed EMS comprises one Main Grid (MG0) and
four interconnected MGs (MG1, MG2, MG3, and MG4). These MGs are integrated
into a P2P trading network, establishing a cooperative environment that facilitates
active power exchange. This P2P interconnection is specifically designed to enhance
system resilience, allowing the MGs to support one another through internal power
transfers, especially when isolated from the Main Grid. To ensure grid stability and
respect physical tie-line capacities, the power exchange between any connected MGs
is strictly constrained within a trading limit of ±1.5 MW (1.5 pu, given a system base
power of 1 MVA).
The physical network topology (Figure 5.1) integrates four distinct MGs:
Figure 5.1 P2P interconnection topology of the MMG system.
• MG 1 (MG1): 36-node network with diverse generation (PV, WT, BESS, DG).
Maintains physical P2P tie-lines with MG3 and MG4.
• MG 2 (MG2): 30-node radial solar-only network with BESS and DG. Directly
connected to MG3 and MG4.
• MG 3 (MG3): 21-node network with excess generation capabilities. Intercon-
nected with MG1, MG2, and MG4.
30

• MG 4 (MG4): 35-node complex with high consumption and PV capacity. Inter-
connected with MG1, MG2, and MG3.
5.1.1
Network Topology and DER Allocation Parameters
To ensure the mathematical models accurately reflect physical distribution networks,
DERs across the four MGs—as structurally depicted in Figure 5.1—is systematically
summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1 Placement of DERs across MGs
MG
Total Nodes
PV Nodes
WT Nodes
BESS Node
DG Node
MG1
36
3, 10, 12, 14, 26, 36
32
19
5
MG2
30
14, 19, 28, 30
-
20
10
MG3
21
2, 8, 11, 15
1
12
9
MG4
35
18, 20, 27, 29
-
8
22
Furthermore, DG BESS are identically configured across all deployed units. These
parameters form the foundational cost coefficients for the objective function and are
summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2 Technical and Economic Parameters of DG and BESS
Component
Parameter
Value (pu / nominal)
Dispatchable
Minimum / Maximum Output (Pmin
DG / Pmax
DG )
0.2/1.3
Generator
Ramp Rate Limit (RDG)
1.0
(DG)
Minimum Up/Down Time (T DG
up , T DG
down)
2 hours
Fixed Cost Coefficient (αDG)
700
Linear Cost Coefficient (βDG)
16.06
Quadratic Cost Coefficient (γDG)
0.002
O&M Cost Coefficient (κDG)
1.258
Hot / Cold Start Cost (Cstart,DG)
660/1120
Battery Energy
Energy Capacity (EBESS)
1.5
Storage
Maximum Power (Pmax
BESS)
0.75
(BESS)
Charge/Discharge Efficiency (ηBESS)
0.90
SOCmin / SOCmax / SOCini
0.20/0.95/0.40
Degradation Cost (CBESS)
7.125
5.1.2
Simulation Scenarios and Baseline Models
To rigorously evaluate the resilience of the proposed EMS, a compounded emergency
fault is simulated based on realistic parameter bounds derived from the system’s gen-
eration profiles and limits. The simulated emergency event is characterized by the
simultaneous occurrence of two severe failures:
• Main Grid Loss: A complete disconnection from the utility grid (MG0) oc-
curs between t = 9 and t = 15, forcing the entire MMG network into islanded
operation.
• PV Generation Loss: A severe drop in solar power generation affects all PV
units between t = 11 and t = 15, representing an extreme weather anomaly.
31

Figure 5.2 Timeline of the compounded emergency fault, illustrating the Main Grid
and PV generation loss scenarios.
Under these harsh operating conditions, three distinct comparison scenarios are de-
fined to evaluate the proposed framework:
• Base Fault: Isolated operation without P2P energy sharing during the emer-
gency.
• PF: Ideal centralized approach with perfect prediction of the entire horizon.
• MPC: The proposed decentralized rolling-horizon MPC with limited foresight.
5.1.3
The 3D Evaluation Framework: Horizontal, Vertical, and Boundary Anal-
ysis
To comprehensively validate the proposed MPC-ATC framework, this chapter intro-
duces a three-dimensional evaluation methodology:
• Horizontal Evaluation (Cross-sectional Benchmarking): Fixes the environ-
mental inputs to compare the proposed method against standard baselines (e.g.,
Base Fault, PF), establishing its comparative economic and security superiority.
• Vertical Evaluation (Temporal and Physical Dynamics): Fixes the model to
the proposed framework, diving deep into its internal operations over time. This
uncovers the underlying physical mechanics (e.g., active power routing, voltage
constraints, algorithmic convergence) that enable its performance.
• Boundary Evaluation (Stress Testing): Pushes both the economic and physical
dimensions to their absolute limits through spatiotemporal compounding faults,
evaluating the ultimate resilience and graceful degradation capacity of the sys-
tem.
5.2
Horizontal Evaluation: System-Level Economic Assessment and Bench-
marking
This section evaluates the quantitative performance of the three defined simulation
models based on true economic outcomes and global optimality. To ensure a rigorous
comparison, BESS are strictly enforced, SOC at the end of the simulation horizon
equals the initial SOC (SOC24 = SOC0). Furthermore, algorithmic penalties (such as
SOC or cross-penalties) are excluded to formulate the True Economic Cost, which is
defined strictly by pure fuel expenses and load shedding compensation.
Table 5.3 summarizes the macro-economic benchmark results for the three scenarios.
32

Table 5.3 Macro-Economic Benchmark of Simulation Models
Model
Pure Cost (cents)
Pure Gap
True Eco Cost (cents)
Eco Gap
Shedding (MWh)
Base Fault
179,695.79
5.02%
1,722,260.04
272.41%
15.4260
PF
171,100.35
Baseline
462,462.02
Baseline
2.9138
Current Method
179,007.53
4.62%
470,294.90
1.69%
2.9129
Note: The minute disparity in load shedding between PF (2.9138 MWh) and the Current
Method (2.9129 MWh) is mathematically negligible and stems exclusively from numerical
solver convergence tolerances rather than algorithmic inferiority.
The benchmark analysis is visually supported by Figure 5.3:
Figure 5.3 Macro-economic comparison demonstrating the true economic cost versus
total load shedding.
5.2.1
Critical Load Protection and Energy Security
The primary objective during emergency operation is the minimization of unserved
energy, specifically shielding critical infrastructure. Under the isolated Base Fault
scenario, P2P sharing forces the system to shed 15.4260 MWh of load due to local-
ized power depletion. Implementing the decentralized MPC drastically reduces this
shedding to merely 2.9129 MWh, closely mirroring the ideal performance of the PF
model (2.9138 MWh).
Mathematically, the financial data confirms the complete protection of critical loads.
The shedding compensation incurred by the MPC is the difference between its true
economic cost and pure cost (470,294.90−179,007.53 = 291,287.37 cents). Divid-
ing this penalty by the curtailed energy (2.9129 MWh) yields an exact compensation
rate of 100,000 cents/MWh, which perfectly matches the VOLL assigned strictly to
Normal Loads. Consequently, this demonstrates that all curtailed power was exclu-
sively non-essential, confirming that the framework successfully protected 100% of
the Critical Load during severe compounded outages.
33

5.2.2
Optimality Gap Analysis: The Denominator Effect
Although the proposed MPC operates under a decentralized architecture with a lim-
ited rolling horizon, its generation dispatch expenses (Pure Cost) stand at 179,007.53
cents, maintaining an Optimality Gap of 4.62% relative to the centralized PF bench-
mark (171,100.35 cents).
More importantly, when evaluating the overarching system resilience through the True
Economic Gap, the disparity collapses to a mere 1.69%. This performance gap high-
lights a crucial operational phenomenon: The short-sightedness of the rolling horizon
slightly compromises the optimal economic dispatch of generation resources, but it
fundamentally does not degrade the system’s energy security capability. This behav-
ior is mathematically driven by the objective function’s weighting. The penalty factor
for load shedding (VOLL = 100,000 cents/MWh) is orders of magnitude higher than
the marginal cost of standard generation (∼16 cents). Therefore, even with only a 1-
hour look-ahead window, the objective gradient heavily prioritizes immediate BESS
discharge and P2P sharing to avert shedding at all costs. The MPC’s myopic nature
only leads to suboptimal fuel purchasing schedules, but it will never elect to shed load
unless physical capacities are entirely exhausted.
Figure 5.4 Energy mix distribution across the MMG system over a 24-hour horizon.
5.2.3
Co-optimization Benefits of P2P Energy Trading
Cross-examining the Base Fault and MPC scenarios uncovers the synergistic ben-
efits of the P2P architecture. Typically, enhancing system resilience to supply an
additional 12.51 MWh (the difference in shedding between Base Fault and MPC) re-
quires a Resilience Premium by ramping up expensive localized generation. However,
the MPC achieves this while actually lowering the total generation cost (179,007.53
cents) compared to the isolated Base Fault (179,695.79 cents).
This capability to provide resilience at a Negative Premium stems from unblocking
stranded renewable energy. As illustrated in Figure 5.4, excess PV and wind gener-
ation from healthy nodes—which would otherwise be curtailed under isolated con-
ditions—is effectively routed to deficit regions. The P2P network, dynamically reg-
ulated by the MPC, forms a symbiotic ecosystem that simultaneously saves critical
34

loads and optimizes overall fuel expenditure.
5.2.4
Comparative Analysis of MG Operational Dynamics
(a) MG2
(b) MG4
Figure 5.5 Massive Load Shedding in Vulnerable MGs - Base Fault Scenario.
• Base Fault: The Vulnerability of Isolation: When extreme high-impact, low-
probability (HILP) events induce a main grid blackout and PV outage, MMG
system is forced into isolated operation. Under these conditions, tie-line power
flows are constrained to zero (Ptie = 0), compelling each MG to maintain its inter-
nal supply-demand balance using only local resources. This structural limitation
exacerbates localized power mismatches. Specifically, the faulted MGs (MG2
and MG4) experience severe energy deficits, whereas the healthy, independent
MGs (MG1 and MG3) are forced to curtail surplus renewable generation. To
maintain physical system stability and prevent voltage or frequency collapse, the
local controllers in the faulted MGs must execute extensive load shedding, incur-
ring substantial economic penalties. The severe load curtailment observed in the
Base Case for MG2 and MG4 (see Figure 5.5) demonstrates that isolated local
energy storage capacities are inadequate to sustain operation during prolonged
disruptions. This underscores the technical necessity of relaxing the isolation
constraint (Ptie = 0) by establishing a P2P trading framework to enhance overall
system resilience and mitigating localized power deficits.
35

(a) MG1
(b) MG2
(c) MG3
(d) MG4
Figure 5.6 SOC Comparison.
• PF: The Advantage of Absolute Knowledge: The PF model operates with ab-
solute knowledge of the entire 24-hour horizon. This predictive supremacy mani-
fests as a highly proactive energy management strategy, clearly visible in the SOC
comparison charts (Figure 5.6). Rather than passively maintaining charge before
the emergency, the PF model exhibits a sophisticated anticipatory discharge be-
havior. Specifically, at t = 8, right before the main grid fault occurs, the PF model
intentionally discharges the BESS down to its minimum limit (SOC = 0.2). This
is not a random action, but a strategic clearing of energy headroom. Knowing
that the main grid will fail at t = 9, but local solar generation will still be abun-
dant during t = 9 and t = 10 before the PV outage at t = 11, the algorithm makes
room to aggressively capture this free solar energy. Consequently, it rapidly
charges the BESS from 0.2 to near-maximum capacity (∼0.95) within those two
hours.
During the darkest fault hours (t = 11 to t = 15), this strategically stored energy
is deployed. By optimally manipulating its energy boundaries based on future
knowledge, the PF model maximizes renewable energy utilization while avoid-
ing unnecessary grid purchases. This flawless temporal energy shifting demon-
strates the critical role of the BESS in economic optimization. By preemptively
capturing free solar generation and strategically discharging it during the most
severe deficit periods, the PF framework substantially minimizes the reliance on
expensive emergency active power generation, thereby driving down the total
system cost and achieving the theoretical minimum operational expenditure.
36

• Proposed MPC: The Hoarding Syndrome and P2P Rescue: In stark contrast,
MPC operates under a limited rolling horizon, rendering it entirely blind to the
true duration and severity of the impending emergency. This lack of long-term
visibility fundamentally alters the battery dispatch behavior. Prior to the fault,
the MPC maintains flat, standard economic SOC profiles, failing to proactively
pre-charge. More importantly, when the fault suddenly hits at t = 9, the MPC
adopts a conservative energy retention strategy. Because it cannot foresee the
end of the outage, the algorithm becomes highly reluctant to fully discharge its
limited BESS reserves, reserving them against future uncertainties. As seen in
the SOC Comparison graphs (Figure 5.6), rather than smoothly depleting the
batteries like the PF model, the MPC significantly restricts its BESS discharge
rates.
To manage the contingency and compensate for this conservative discharge ap-
proach, the MPC is forced to rely almost exclusively on the P2P network as a
primary support mechanism. The Active Power flow graphs (Figure 5.7) illus-
trate this highly dynamic and spatially shifted support operation. During the
initial phase of the grid isolation (t = 9,t = 10), the system relies heavily on two
primary supporting units: MG2 (leveraging its dense solar capacity) and MG3
(benefiting from its light industrial load). These two MGs actively export signifi-
cant amounts of surplus power through the tie-lines to sustain the power-deficient
MGs, MG1 and MG4.
However, when the compounded severe PV loss strikes at t = 11, the entire inter-
nal power flow topology undergoes a significant restructuring. MG2, suddenly
stripped of its primary solar resource, rapidly depletes its limited local capacities
and undergoes a complete parasitic shift, transforming into a massive power sink.
Concurrently, MG1 (which possesses robust wind and PV generation) and MG3
emerge as the dual powerhouses of the network. For the remainder of the fault
(t = 11 to t = 15), MG1 and MG3 generate massive surpluses and aggressively
export power to rescue the deficit regions.
5.3
Vertical Evaluation: Operational Dynamics of the Proposed MPC-ATC
Framework
5.3.1
Active Power Routing and the Transit Corridor Effect
This intense reliance on spatial P2P sharing causes highly volatile spikes in active
power exchange. However, it is precisely this reactive, aggressive coordination that
unblocks stranded renewable energy from the surviving units (MG1 and MG3), rout-
ing it to where it is needed most. This massive active power transfer inevitably gen-
erates large transmission currents (I), inducing severe voltage degradation due to I2X
losses (which will be comprehensively linked and analyzed in Section 5.4.2). Conse-
quently, the MPC effectively manages to protect 100% of the critical loads (as detailed
in Section 5.4) and achieve a synergistic Negative Premium (refer to Section 5.2.3 for
economic analysis), turning its short-sighted temporal limitation into a significant
spatial advantage.
Within this extreme power routing, MG4 is forced into the highly disadvantageous
role of a Wheeling Hub. It imports massive amounts of active power from MG1 and
MG3, only to wheel a significant portion of it directly to the collapsed MG2. This
creates a critical operational challenge: MG4 is forced to execute active load shed-
ding not because it lacks access to active power (P), but because the sheer volume of
37

(a) MG1
(b) MG2
(c) MG3
(d) MG4
Figure 5.7 Active Power Flow - Proposed MPC Method.
power flowing through its distribution feeders to save MG2 induces massive currents
(I). These transit currents exponentially inflate the local reactive power losses (I2X),
dragging down MG4’s voltage profile and forcing it to shed its own local loads just
to maintain the physical viability of the transmission path. MG4 essentially sacrifices
its own normal loads to serve as a lifeline for MG2. By accurately modeling these
AC network constraints, the proposed ATC-OPF framework autonomously identifies
this physical bottleneck and sacrifices normal loads to prevent a complete corridor
collapse.
5.3.2
AC-OPF Constraint Satisfaction:
Voltage Stability and Reactive Power
Management
This section analyzes the local power quality, voltage stability, and load shedding
behaviors at the nodal level to evaluate the physical feasibility of the proposed frame-
work.
The node-level voltage profiles, presented in Figure 5.8, demonstrate the system’s
adaptive voltage regulation strategy. Under normal operating conditions, the bus volt-
ages are maintained within predefined soft limits to ensure power quality. However,
during the fault period, the proposed algorithm relaxes these boundaries to the statu-
tory hard limits of [0.95,1.05] p.u. This relaxation serves to maximize the capacity
of P2P power flows, enabling the energy transfers required to support the deficient
regions.
38

(a) MG1
(b) MG2
(c) MG3
(d) MG4
Figure 5.8 Node-Level Voltage Profiles.
Despite operating near the lower boundary due to heavy loading and wheeling ac-
tivities, reactive power injection alone is fundamentally insufficient to stabilize the
network.
The AC-OPF algorithm executes a sophisticated, multi-layered defense
mechanism to prevent voltage collapse. As depicted in Figure 5.9, there is a stark
operational contrast between the microgrids during the first layer of defense. While
MG2 maintains robust Q reserves and comfortably regulates its local voltage without
reaching its generation limits, MG4 is entirely overwhelmed. The heavy active power
wheeling passing through MG4 drags its voltage down, forcing its local dispatchable
generators to rapidly exhaust their reactive power (Q) reserves.
(a) MG2
(b) MG4
Figure 5.9 Reactive Power Dispatch - Proposed MPC Method.
Once the generators in MG4 hit their strict Q-limits, any further active power transfer
would inevitably drag the nodal voltages below the critical 0.95 p.u. threshold. Rec-
ognizing this absolute physical limitation, the algorithm seamlessly transitions to its
secondary defense exclusively within the overwhelmed region: strategic active power
39

(P) load shedding. By purposefully shedding active load, the algorithm not only re-
moves the associated reactive load but, more crucially, reduces the magnitude of the
localized current (I). Because reactive power losses on distribution feeders scale ex-
ponentially with current (I2X), this reduction in I exponentially cuts down the reactive
losses. It is this intricate synergy—exhausting local Q-injections followed by targeted
P-shedding to alleviate I2X losses—that guarantees the voltage levels securely ride
the 0.95 p.u. boundary, ultimately rescuing the vulnerable MG4 from a cascading
voltage collapse.
The load shedding profiles, depicted in Figure 5.10, demonstrate the prioritization
mechanism of the energy management algorithm resulting from this secondary de-
fense. As will be comprehensively analyzed in Section 5.4, critical load shedding
remains at zero across all MGs, with curtailment confined entirely to normal loads
within MG4. Furthermore, a deeper spatial analysis within MG4 reveals that the cur-
tailed loads are predominantly located at the downstream, end-of-line nodes to relieve
network congestion and stabilize local voltage profiles.
Figure 5.10 Load Shedding Profile (Confined exclusively to MG4).
5.3.3
Algorithmic Convergence and the Tie-line Congestion Paradox
As depicted in Figure 5.12, the decentralized algorithm determines the P2P power
exchanges through an iterative negotiation process, achieving convergence when the
maximum absolute residual falls below the predefined 0.01 threshold. During the ini-
tial onset of the grid isolation (t = 9,t = 10) and the subsequent shock of the PV gen-
eration loss (t = 11), the system experiences violent structural disruptions. When the
main grid connection is severed, the entire mathematical topology of the optimization
problem shifts; the system loses its infinite slack bus, forcing the distributed agents
to autonomously re-establish power balance and voltage references. These sudden
topological shifts induce massive initial discrepancies (residuals) between neighbor-
ing MGs. Consequently, the algorithm requires up to 45 iteration steps to negotiate a
new power-sharing consensus.
It is precisely these iteration-heavy structural shocks that drive the maximum CPU
time required for a single MPC step to peak at 91 seconds, as shown in Figure
5.11. Although initialization shocks push the maximum CPU time to 91 seconds,
this remains well within the 3600-second real-time dispatch interval (accounting for
∼2.5%), ensuring real-time feasibility. Furthermore, this CPU spike is strictly a tran-
sient phenomenon representing the absolute worst-case scenario during a structural
40

transition.
Once the system adapts to the new islanded topology, the convergence speed accel-
erates exponentially in the later fault hours (t = 12 to t = 15). This acceleration is
heavily driven by the algorithm’s warm-start mechanism, which capitalizes on the
temporal correlation of power systems. By seeding the negotiation process with the
converged dual multipliers (λ) from the previous time step, the algorithm initiates
the optimization extremely close to the true optimal solution. Because the network
conditions stabilize after the initial shocks, these warm-started parameters are highly
accurate, reducing the required iterations to single digits and dropping the CPU time
to mere seconds. While the residual decay exhibits minor transient oscillations as
agents dynamically adjust their boundary targets, the algorithm successfully forces
the residuals below the convergence limit across all fault and recovery hours. This
cohesive behavior unequivocally demonstrates the mathematical reliability, extreme
computational efficiency, and real-time feasibility of the decentralized architecture
under severe emergencies.
This highlights the computational efficiency of the ATC algorithm. The monolithic
PF model, which processes the entire 24-hour horizon simultaneously, incurs a high
computational burden, requiring a total CPU time of 584 seconds. In contrast, the
MPC approach distributes the computational load, resulting in a reduced total CPU
time of 413 seconds.
Figure 5.11 Total and maximum CPU time comparison between PF and MPC.
41

Figure 5.12 ATC Convergence Behavior Across All Hours.
The internal economic mechanism of the P2P network is governed by the dynamic
trading price λ, which acts as the primary market signal. As illustrated in Figure
5.13, the pricing dynamics exhibit a distinct behavior during the compounded fault
window. While the ATC algorithm mathematically maintains an independent λ vari-
able for each individual tie-line, the graph demonstrates that these prices successfully
reach a uniform consensus across the entire network. Under normal grid-connected
conditions, this consensus price generally fluctuates between 15 and 16, though it
climbs to approximately 16.9 just before the fault due to local peak demand. How-
ever, when the system enters isolated operation between t = 9 and t = 15, the uniform
trading price λ abruptly drops and stabilizes at a lower floor of approximately 13.3.
This sustained low price during a severe emergency reveals a profound AC-OPF phe-
nomenon: the Tie-line Congestion Paradox. Despite extreme, system-wide power
shortages—which eventually force MG4 to execute active load shedding (a condition
where the local marginal price theoretically skyrockets to the VOLL)—the consensus
trading price λ remains remarkably decoupled from these high-priced deficit nodes.
This counterintuitive pricing behavior is a direct consequence of the physical network
constraints. The critical tie-lines connecting the MGs have finite thermal capacities
(1.5 MW limit). As the surplus exporters, MG1 and MG3 aggressively push power to
rescue MG2 and MG4 until these tie-lines reach their absolute physical transmission
limits. Once multi-path congestion occurs, the network functionally fractures into two
distinct zones: a Surplus Island (MG1, MG3) and a Deficit Island (MG2, MG4).
Because no additional power can physically cross the congested boundary to further
alleviate the shortages in the Deficit Island, the decentralized ATC market algorithm
correctly identifies that any further increase in the consensus price λ would not yield
any additional transacted energy. Consequently, the uniform consensus price λ com-
pletely severs its connection from the astronomical deficit prices (VOLL) of the shed-
ding MGs.
This market fracturing is not an arbitrary algorithmic behavior, but a direct conse-
quence of the KKT optimality conditions. When a tie-line flow reaches its upper limit
42

(Ptie ≤Pmax), the corresponding dual variable µ (the shadow price of transmission ca-
pacity) becomes strictly positive (µ > 0). In the Lagrangian formulation, the trading
consensus multiplier λ negotiated at the boundary is mathematically defined as the
internal marginal price minus this congestion shadow price (λ = LMPde ficit −µ).
Therefore, λ remains decoupled and strictly reflects the marginal cost of the "trapped
surplus" generation stranded within the Surplus Island. The astronomical price spike
at the deficit nodes is entirely absorbed by the transmission rent µ. 2
This price decoupling represents a massive advantage of the AC-OPF-based decen-
tralized market: it proves that the trading mechanism is not a purely financial con-
struct, but is fundamentally anchored to the physical physics of AC power flows. It
shields the broader network from localized price explosions while guaranteeing that
energy routing is maximized right up to the strict thermal limits. Immediately after
the fault clears at t = 16, the depleted BESS units and accumulated demand trigger
a massive recovery surge, removing the congestion and causing the internal price to
immediately spike to its peak (∼18.0) as the system reconnects to the main grid.
Figure 5.13 Dynamic ATC Pricing (λ).
5.4
Boundary Evaluation: Stress Testing and System Resilience
5.4.1
The Spatiotemporal Stress Matrix
This section evaluates the resilience of the proposed system under conditions beyond
the standard emergency fault. To assess the system against AC-OPF physical lim-
its, a three-dimensional stress matrix tests the network across temporal, spatial, and
spatiotemporal dimensions.
Using the fault scenario from Sections 5.2 and 5.3 as the baseline, the network is
subjected to increasingly severe structural stress. While the utility grid disconnection
isolates the entire MMG system, the “2-MG” and “3-MG” designations specify the
number of MGs suffering from compounded severe PV losses, which transform them
into significant power sinks:
2Note: λ represents the ATC boundary negotiation multiplier (the unconstrained trading signal),
not the internal LMPs. While λ synchronizes across the network, the internal LMPs within MG4
implicitly skyrocket to VOLL, reflecting the physical reality of the localized deficit.
43

• 2-MG Deficit (Short Fault - Standard Baseline): The default emergency sce-
nario where MG2 and MG4 suffer significant internal power deficits over a 7-
hour window (t = 9 to t = 15), relying on MG1 and MG3 as surplus power
providers.
• 2-MG Deficit (Long Fault - Temporal Depth): The system-wide outage is ex-
tended to an 11-hour window (t = 9 to t = 19). Due to BESS hoarding (a rec-
ognized algorithmic limitation established in Section 5.2.4), this prolonged sce-
nario specifically tests the continuous endurance of the P2P active power routing
network rather than local battery capacities.
• 3-MG Deficit (Short Fault - Spatial Depth): The compounded PV failure
expands spatially to MG1 over the standard 7-hour window. This removes a
primary energy exporter, transforming MG1 into a third significant power sink
alongside MG2 and MG4.
• 3-MG Deficit (Long Fault - Spatiotemporal Extreme): The expanded 3-MG
deficit footprint is prolonged across the entire 11-hour window (t = 9 to t = 19).
This maximizes spatial and temporal stress, leaving MG3 as the sole surplus
provider for the entire network.
By evaluating the network under these extreme conditions, this analysis demonstrates
the algorithm’s Autonomous Critical Load Prioritization mechanism. Under severe
energy scarcity, the decentralized algorithm deliberately curtails normal loads and
sacrifices global economic optimality to mathematically guarantee the uninterrupted
supply of all critical infrastructure.
5.4.2
Active Power Routing Limits and Network Capacity
The primary source of system stress originates at the network layer, specifically within
the P2P active power routing mechanism. As the compounded disturbance expands,
localized power deficits require the MMG network to increasingly rely on spatial
power transfers to maintain load balance. Figure 5.14 illustrates the dynamic expan-
sion of these P2P active power flows across the four evaluated stress configurations.
A cross-panel comparison highlights the substantial load placed on the transmis-
sion infrastructure. In the Base Case (representing the standard 2-MG Short Fault),
the active power exchange exhibits a notable increase during the primary fault win-
dow. However, as the deficit expands spatially—transforming MG1 into an additional
power sink in the 3-MG configurations—the network reaches its transfer saturation
point. The active power flows originating from the sole remaining surplus provider
(MG3) expand to their maximum physical constraints. The network routing algorithm
maximizes power transfers through the distribution corridors to support the deficient
MGs.
In the Long Fault scenarios (2-MG Long and 3-MG Long), the severe energy deficit
is sustained over an 11-hour window (t = 9 to t = 19). This extended disturbance
necessitates massive active power transfer across the physical tie-lines, pushing them
toward their thermal limits. This high magnitude of active power transferred leads
to a proportional rise in transmission currents (I). These elevated currents contribute
directly to severe reactive power losses (I2X) and the subsequent voltage degrada-
tion analyzed in Section 5.4.3. To navigate this physical strain, the decentralized
44

Figure 5.14 P2P active power exchange across four fault scenarios: Base Case (2-
MG Short), 3-MG Short, 2-MG Long, and 3-MG Long.
algorithm strictly manages this maximized active power routing, utilizing it as the
primary mechanism for load preservation while safely delivering available renewable
generation to deficit nodes.
5.4.3
Voltage Stability Envelopes under Severe Grid Contingencies
As established in Sections 5.3.1 and 5.4.2, the intensive routing of active power in-
herently induces substantial transmission currents (I), generating significant voltage
drops due to the impedance relationship (I×Z) and I2X reactive losses. Consequently,
the system’s global voltage envelope undergoes significant degradation during the
contingency windows. As illustrated in Figure 5.15, this physical strain forces the
voltage trajectories to exceed the predefined soft operational boundaries. However,
the AC-OPF algorithm enforces a strict mathematical containment, constraining the
minimum nodal voltages to the strict statutory lower bound of 0.90 p.u., thereby pre-
venting cascading voltage collapse under all tested extreme conditions.
A comparative analysis of the voltage trajectories reveals the precise impact of spa-
tiotemporal stress. The 2-MG Long Fault configuration imposes the most sustained
thermal stress on the tie-lines, resulting in the deepest voltage sags (the lowest point)
among all scenarios. This phenomenon illustrates a counterintuitive AC-OPF char-
acteristic: the less severe 2-MG scenario possesses sufficient residual generation to
sustain high transfer currents across the tie-lines, leading to significant voltage drops
due to line impedance. In contrast, the generation-deficient 3-MG scenario lacks the
capacity to drive such currents, resulting in shallower voltage sags but forcing the
45

Figure 5.15 System-wide voltage envelope under varying spatiotemporal fault severi-
ties.
algorithm to initiate active load shedding. This behavior demonstrates the neces-
sity of the AC-OPF framework: the algorithm executes a dynamic binding constraint
pivot, autonomously shifting from enforcing network constraints (V ≥0.90 p.u.) in
the 2-MG case to enforcing generation limits (Pgen ≤Pmax) in the 3-MG case with-
out requiring heuristic switching logic. Conversely, the voltage profiles of the 3-MG
Short and 3-MG Long configurations closely track each other during the initial core
fault window from t = 9 to t = 15. This identical tracking is a direct consequence of
the rolling-horizon MPC algorithm’s limited foresight. Lacking the ability to predict
whether the fault will resolve at t = 15 or extend to t = 19, the algorithm executes the
same conservative response. The temporal divergence occurs sharply after hour 15:
immediately following the conclusion of the Short fault, the corresponding voltage
trajectory exhibits immediate recovery as normal operation resumes. In contrast, the
Long fault trajectory remains suppressed near the critical boundary for the remainder
of the extended outage.
This strict adherence to the 0.90 p.u. threshold highlights the fundamental constraint
of the physical network. Once local reactive power capacities are exhausted, the al-
gorithm is mathematically constrained to execute targeted active load shedding to
alleviate the current burden and maintain system reliability, a mechanism critically
analyzed in Section 5.4.4.
5.4.4
Graceful Degradation: Autonomous Load Prioritization vs. Economic Cost
As established in Section 5.4.1 and Section 5.4.3, the active load shedding ob-
served across the stress matrix is driven by a dual-mechanism (voltage-induced and
generation-induced). Figure 5.16 illustrates the significant escalation in True Eco-
nomic Cost and Normal Load Shedding as the contingency expands spatiotemporally,
46

confirming that the algorithm autonomously curtails normal loads to serve as an op-
erational buffer.
Figure 5.16 Robustness test demonstrating True Economic Cost versus Load Shedding
across fault depths.
The temporal dynamics of this shedding behavior demonstrate the system’s opera-
tional hierarchy, as depicted in Figure 5.17. As previously introduced in Section 5.4.1,
the algorithm guarantees the uninterrupted supply of all critical infrastructure, with
the critical load shedding trajectory remaining at 0.0 MWh across all evaluated ex-
treme scenarios.
Figure 5.17 Temporal distribution of Total Shedding and Economic Cost.
In conclusion, the analysis in Section 5.4 establishes that the MMG energy manage-
ment framework executes a strategy of "Graceful Degradation." Under compound-
ing extreme fault conditions, the algorithm incurs maximum economic penalty, uti-
lizing normal loads as operational buffers.
This controlled degradation protects
47

the core network, guaranteeing the 100% protection of critical loads.
This phe-
nomenon is a direct mathematical consequence of the objective function gradient:
because the VOLL penalty for critical infrastructure strictly dominates normal loads
(VOLLcritical ≫VOLLnormal), the solver is mathematically constrained to fully ex-
haust locally available normal load shedding variables before violating critical load
constraints, validating the system’s strict prioritization of power security over eco-
nomic optimality.
48

CHAPTER 6. CONCLUSION
6.1
Conclusion
This thesis successfully developed a fault-adaptive, P2P energy trading framework to
enhance MMG resilience, summarized by four key findings:
• Algorithmic Architecture: The proposed “Bottom-up Spatiotemporal 3-Mode
State Machine” achieved high computational tractability, reaching rapid ATC
convergence (max 91 seconds) during severe structural grid shocks to ensure
real-time MPC feasibility.
• Physical Resilience and AC-OPF Necessity: The absolute necessity of AC-OPF
was validated by demonstrating that proactive active power curtailment effec-
tively mitigates catastrophic voltage collapse caused by transit-induced reactive
losses, strictly maintaining the 0.90 p.u. boundary.
• Market Pricing and the Tie-line Congestion Paradox: The study mathemati-
cally proved the “Tie-line Congestion Paradox”, wherein physical thermal limits
inherently activate KKT bounds to forcefully cap ATC consensus pricing (λ),
completely preventing market collapse during extreme localized VOLL escala-
tions.
• System Security and Graceful Degradation: The framework synergizes a
“Graceful Degradation” mechanism with P2P trading to guarantee a 100% Criti-
cal Load survival rate while achieving a “Negative Premium”—a dual economic-
resilience benefit that liberates stranded energy during severe disruptions.
6.2
Future Work
To fundamentally address the physical and algorithmic limitations observed in this
study, future research should focus on three primary directions:
• Overcoming Conservative BESS SOC Retention: To mitigate the conserva-
tive MPC BESS discharging behavior (driven by the strict end-of-horizon SOC
penalty constraints), introducing an RL-based SOC Penalty will encourage more
proactive BESS discharging. Additionally, to address the inherent uncertainty
of renewable energy generation, future iterations will employ Stochastic MPC to
provide robust operational scheduling.
• Hardware and Reactive Power Support: Currently, when handling massive
transit currents that threaten voltage stability, intermediary MGs are forced to
suboptimally shed active power.
To resolve this limitation, future iterations
will integrate dynamic reactive compensation devices (e.g., STATCOM, SVC)
or Smart Inverters equipped with Volt-VAR control to independently supply the
necessary reactive power (Q) support.
• Dynamic Topology Reconfiguration: To autonomously isolate physical fault
zones and establish backup routing paths, future work will integrate a Dynamic
Switch Control mechanism for real-time network reconfiguration, thereby opti-
mizing power flow and further enhancing the structural resilience of the MMG
network.
49

LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS
• Trinh Xuan Thanh, [Co-author(s)], “[Paper Title]”, [Journal/Conference
Name], 06/2026 (Under Review / Published).
50

References
[1] A. Muhtadi, D. Pandit, N. Nguyen, and J. Mitra, “Distributed energy resources
based microgrid: Review of architecture, control, and reliability,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Industry Applications, 2021.
[2] A. Dagar, P. Gupta, and V. Niranjan, “Microgrid protection: A comprehensive
review,” Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 2021.
[3] S. Ahmad, M. Shafiullah, C. B. Ahmed, and M. Alowaifeer, “A review of mi-
crogrid energy management and control strategies,” IEEE Access, 2023.
[4] B. She, F. Li, H. Cui, J. Zhang, and R. Bo, “Fusion of microgrid control with
model-free reinforcement learning: Review and vision,” IEEE Transactions on
Smart Grid, 2022.
[5] R. Trivedi and S. Khadem, “Implementation of artificial intelligence techniques
in microgrid control environment: Current progress and future scopes,” Energy
and AI, 2022.
[6] S. Choudhury, “Review of energy storage system technologies integration to mi-
crogrid: Types, control strategies, issues, and future prospects,” Journal of En-
ergy Storage, 2022.
[7] C. Zhang, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, M. Cheng, and C. Long, “Peer-to-peer energy trading
in a microgrid,” Applied Energy, vol. 220, pp. 1–12, 2018.
[8] M. Karami and R. Madlener, “Business models for peer-to-peer energy trading in
germany based on households’ beliefs and preferences,” Applied Energy, 2021.
[9] L. Ali, M. I. Azim, J. Peters, V. Bhandari, A. Menon, V. Tiwari, J. Green, and
S. M. Muyeen, “Blockchain-based local energy market enabling p2p trading:
An australian collated case study on energy users, retailers and utilities,” IEEE
Access, 2022.
[10] J.-S. Park, S. W. Kim, and J. W. Lee, “P2p credit auction vs. net metering: Bene-
fit analysis for prosumers under incremental block rate electricity tariff,” Applied
Energy, 2024.
[11] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, H. Mohsenian-Rad, T. Saha, H. V. Poor, and K. L. Wood,
“Peer-to-peer trading in electricity networks: An overview,” IEEE Transactions
on Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 3185–3200, 2020.
[12] M. F. Zia, M. Benbouzid, E. Elbouchikhi, S. M. Muyeen, K. Techato, and J. M.
Guerrero, “Microgrid transactive energy: Review, architectures, distributed
ledger technologies, and market analysis,” IEEE Access, 2020.
[13] Z. Li, M. Shahidehpour, F. Aminifar, A. Alabdulwahab, and Y. Al-Turki, “Net-
worked microgrids for enhancing the power system resilience,” Proceedings of
the IEEE, vol. 105, no. 7, pp. 1289–1310, 2017.
51

[14] Y. Hu, Z. He, G. Huang, L. Wang, C. Guo, and Z. Li, “Region-based resilience
evaluation and quantification method for networked microgrids under extreme
weather,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2026.
[15] B. Chen, J. Wang, X. Lu, C. Chen, and S. Zhao, “Networked microgrids for grid
resilience, robustness, and efficiency: A review,” IEEE Transactions on Smart
Grid, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 18–32, 2020.
[16] N. Bhusal, M. Abdelmalak, M. Kamruzzaman, and M. Benidris, “Power system
resilience: Current practices, challenges, and future directions,” IEEE Access,
vol. 8, pp. 18 064–18 086, 2020.
[17] J. Guerrero, A. Chapman, and G. Verbiˇc, “Impact of peer-to-peer energy trading
on distribution networks,” Applied Energy, vol. 304, p. 117800, 2021.
[18] J. Guerrero, A. C. Chapman, and G. Verbiˇc, “Decentralized p2p energy trad-
ing under network constraints in a low-voltage network,” IEEE Transactions on
Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 5163–5173, 2018.
[19] E. Lannoye, D. Flynn, and M. O’Malley, “Evaluation of power system flexibil-
ity,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 922–931, 2012.
[20] A. H. Javed et al., “Analyzing impact of network constraints on feasible op-
eration region of the radial distribution networks,” Electric Power Systems Re-
search, vol. 234, p. 110799, 2024.
[21] A. Paudel, L. P. M. I. Sampath, J. Yang, and H. B. Gooi, “Peer-to-peer energy
trading in smart grid considering power losses and network fees,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 4727–4737, 2020.
[22] N. Patari, V. Venkataramanan, A. K. Srivastava, D. K. Molzahn, N. Li, and
A. M. Annaswamy, “Distributed optimization in distribution systems: Use cases,
limitations, and research needs,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 2021.
[23] M. U. Hashmi, D. Deka, A. Buˇsi´c, L. Pereira, and S. Backhaus, “Arbitrage with
power factor correction using energy storage,” IEEE Transactions on Power Sys-
tems, 2020.
[24] P. Pareek, Y. Weng, and H. D. Nguyen, “Optimal steady-state voltage control
using gaussian process learning,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics,
2020.
[25] S. Polat, E. Bıyık, and H. S¸ekerci ¨Oztura, “Optimal active and reactive power
scheduling for inverter-integrated pv and bess under inverter current constraints,”
Electric Power Systems Research, 2025.
[26] A. A. Eajal, A. H. Yazdavar, E. F. El-Saadany, and K. Ponnambalam, “On the
existence of voltage collapse in islanded microgrids,” in 2018 IEEE Electrical
Power and Energy Conference (EPEC).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–6.
52

[27] M. Farivar and S. H. Low, “Branch flow model: Relaxations and convexifica-
tion—part i,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 2554–
2564, 2013.
[28] S. H. Low, “Convex relaxation of optimal power flow—part ii: Exactness,” IEEE
Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 177–189, 2014.
[29] P. Srivastava, R. Haider, V. J. Nair, V. Venkataramanan, A. M. Annaswamy, and
A. K. Srivastava, “Voltage regulation in distribution grids: A survey,” Annual
Reviews in Control, 2023.
[30] O. D. Montoya et al., “A mixed-integer convex model for the optimal placement
and sizing of distributed generators in power distribution networks,” Applied
Sciences, vol. 11, no. 2, 2021.
[31] M. M.-U.-T. Chowdhury and S. Kamalasadan, “An angle included optimal power
flow (opf) model for power distribution network using second order cone pro-
gramming (socp),” in 2020 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting.
IEEE, 2020.
[32] V. M. Garrido-Arévalo, W. Gil-González, O. D. Montoya, L. F. Grisales-Nore˜na,
and J. C. Hernández, “Optimal dispatch of ders and battery-based ess in dis-
tribution grids while considering reactive power capabilities and uncertainties:
A second-order cone programming formulation,” IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp.
48 497–48 510, 2024.
[33] Y. Men, L. Ding, J. Zhang, and X. Lu, “Secondary control fusion in inverter
intensive dynamic microgrids for distribution system resiliency enhancement,”
iEnergy, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 9–13, 2023.
[34] Y. Chen, W. Wei, H. Wang, Q. Zhou, and J. P. S. Catalào, “An energy sharing
mechanism achieving the same flexibility as centralized dispatch,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Smart Grid, 2021.
[35] H. Liu, T. L¨u, Y. Yang, Y. Guo, Q. Wu, X. Xu, and H. Zeng, “Blockchain-based
optimization of operation and trading among multiple microgrids considering
market fairness,” International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
2025.
[36] M. Panteli, D. N. Trakas, P. Mancarella, and N. D. Hatziargyriou, “Power system
resilience to extreme weather: Fragility modeling, probabilistic impact assess-
ment, and adaptation measures,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 32,
no. 5, pp. 3747–3757, 2016.
[37] K. Zuo and L. Wu, “A review of decentralized and distributed control approaches
for islanded microgrids: Novel designs, current trends, and emerging chal-
lenges,” The Electricity Journal, 2022.
[38] D. Zhao, C. Zhang, X. Cao, C. Peng, B. Sun, K. Li, and Y. Li, “Differential
privacy energy management for islanded microgrids with distributed consensus-
based admm algorithm,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology,
2022.
53

[39] T. Erseghe, “Distributed optimal power flow using admm,” IEEE Transactions
on Power Systems, vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 2370–2380, 2014.
[40] Z. Zhang et al., “Distributed consensus-based algorithm for economic dispatch
in a microgrid,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2019.
[41] M. H. Ullah and J.-D. Park, “Dlmp integrated p2p2g energy trading in
distribution-level grid-interactive transactive energy systems,” Applied Energy,
2022.
[42] N. Nasiri, S. Zeynali, S. N. Ravadanegh, and S. Kubler, “Moment-based dis-
tributionally robust peer-to-peer transactive energy trading framework between
networked microgrids, smart parking lots and electricity distribution network,”
IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2023.
[43] Y. Xia, Q. Xu, Y. Ding, L. Shi, and F. Wu, “Generalized nash equilibrium analy-
sis for peer-to-peer transactive energy market considering coupling distribution
network constraints,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 2024.
[44] M. Mishra, A. Singh, R. Misra, and D. Singh, “Two-tier peer-to-peer transactive
energy market,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2024.
[45] A. Rajaei, S. Fattaheian-Dehkordi, M. Fotuhi-Firuzabad, and M. Moeini-
Aghtaie, “Decentralized transactive energy management of multi-microgrid dis-
tribution systems based on admm,” International Journal of Electrical Power &
Energy Systems, 2021.
[46] K. Sun and X. A. Sun, “A two-level distributed algorithm for nonconvex
constrained optimization,”
Computational Optimization and Applications,
vol.
84,
no.
2,
p.
609–649,
Nov
2022.
[Online].
Available:
http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10589-022-00433-4
[47] A. Mohammadi and A. Kargarian, “Accelerated and robust analytical target cas-
cading for distributed optimal power flow,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial In-
formatics, vol. 16, no. 12, pp. 7521–7531, 2020.
[48] J. Zhao, W. Wang, and C. Guo, “Hierarchical optimal configuration of multi-
energy microgrids system considering energy management in electricity mar-
ket environment,” International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
2022.
[49] X. Kong, D. Liu, C. Wang, F. Sun, and S. Li, “Optimal operation strategy for
interconnected microgrids in market environment considering uncertainty,” Ap-
plied Energy, 2020.
[50] Y. Liu, Y. Ye, X. Chen, H. Li, and Y. Huang, “Robust day-ahead dispatch for in-
tegrated power-heat-gas microgrid considering wind power uncertainty,” Math-
ematical Problems in Engineering, 2020.
[51] D. C. Huynh, L. D. Ho, H. M. Pham, M. W. Dunnigan, and C. Barbalata, “Water
wave optimization algorithm-based dynamic optimal dispatch considering a day-
ahead load forecasting in a microgrid,” IEEE Access, 2024.
54

[52] J. Zhang, D. Qin, Y. Ye, Y. He, X. Fu, J. Yang, G. Shi, and H. Zhang, “Multi-
time scale economic scheduling method based on day-ahead robust optimization
and intraday mpc rolling optimization for microgrid,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp.
140 315–140 324, 2021.
[53] C. Wu, S. Gao, Y. Liu, T. E. Song, and H. Han, “A model predictive control
approach in microgrid considering multi-uncertainty of electric vehicles,” Re-
newable Energy, vol. 163, pp. 1385–1396, 2021.
[54] M. Elkazaz, M. Sumner, and D. Thomas, “Energy management system for hy-
brid pv-wind-battery microgrid using convex programming, model predictive
and rolling horizon predictive control with experimental validation,” Interna-
tional Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, 2019.
[55] A. Parisio, E. Rikos, and L. Glielmo, “A model predictive control approach to
microgrid operation optimization,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Tech-
nology, vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 1813–1827, 2014.
[56] W. Zheng, H. Lu, M. Zhang, Q. Wu, Y. Hou, and J. Zhu, “Distributed energy
management of multi-entity integrated electricity and heat systems: A review
of architectures, optimization algorithms, and prospects,” IEEE Transactions on
Smart Grid, 2023.
[57] Y. Zhou, A. S. Zamzam, and A. Bernstein, “Networked microgrid topology re-
configuration to promote fairness in proactive load shedding,” Electric Power
Systems Research, vol. 241, p. 112557, 2025.
55
